So, here it is. The biggest review of Axis foils I have ever done. In chronological order, we've got the
original PGs. Then, we've got the Arts, then the Spitfires, then the Art Pros, then the Arc V2s, then
the Fireballs. Lot to say about those, then the PNG V2s, and finally for the moment, we've got the Tempos
with the new titanium link fuselage. So, I hope you've got yourself a coffee and you're settled because
this is going to be a long one. &gt;&gt; But hold on a minute. What about all the missing foils? I haven't
included certain ranges like the original surf foils, the original high aspect range, the BSC, the HPS,
the SES. Now, all of those foils are still very, very usable. They still do exactly what they were supposed
to do when they were first designed. But in foiling, progress happens very, very quickly. And nearly all
of those have either been superseded um or better designs for specific conditions have been made. If you
still own any of those older foils, don't panic. Don't get FOMO. They're still perfectly good. But if
you feel like you need to progress with your foiling or there are conditions that you just feel the foils
that you've got at the moment aren't dealing with very well, then listen on because some of these new
foils may well be right for you. Okay, I'm going to start off with the PNG range. On my right, we've got
the original PNG. Um, I had the whole range, literally every single size from the 850 all the way up to
the 1310. Um, now I've got the full range of the PNG V2s, but um, that only includes 1200, 1300, and 1400.
So, missing here, the 850, uh, the 910, and the 1010. Absolutely amazing foils. I love them to bits. They
were so easy to use. Um, loads of lift. Um, really easy to pump. They maneuvered pretty well really for
foils of their time. Um, they were slow. They were slow. The 910 was I think one of my favorite surf foils.
The conditions that were in um at the time uh just suited it perfectly. Very occasionally the 850, but
really I didn't have uh waves that were powerful or consistent enough for that. Um the 1010 on those micro
days was amazing. And the 1010 was a foil that I really used um a lot for uh sort of messing around in
just the most inconsistent and smallest wind swell. Um just to sort of learn to pump and link waves or
or to learn to downwind connecting those bumps that are forever changing. Um and it's such a good foil
for that as is the 1150 on the days that were even smaller. Um, and for a big pump foil, and that's what
it's designed for, um, it actually, you know, it it it performed quite well for those conditions. Certainly
for my level, um, of experience at the time. Now, let's get down into these sizes, though, because these
sizes are designed specifically for their pumping performance. PNG stands for pump and glide. So, the
1150 was the original pump foil. Access hit this on the head so early when other brands didn't even have
pump foiling on their radar. Adrian designed this foil and he smashed it out the park and for ages I mean
such a long time it was the benchmark for dock starting um for flatwater pumping. I mean its use case
was pretty big really for lightweight winging and uh and riding tiny little bumps with a suck maybe prone
but bit lifty for prone foiling. Um then along came the PNG 1300's. Now if you have a look at the design
the shape of the 1150 and nearly all of the other PGs are very similar. the 850, the 950, the 1010, the
1150. 1310's got a little different, a few little differences, but it follows the same theme, whereas
the original PNG 1300 was much more high aspect. Um, it was much more glidy and it was faster to pump.
Didn't have quite such aggressive lift, but it still had very good lift. And when I first tried it, I've
got to admit, I didn't really get on with the PNG 1300 straight away. Certainly not as a dock start flatwater
pump foil. Um, I loved it for light wind winging because of its extra glide and speed. Um but after I
saw somebody had cracked the dock starting um uh aspect of it with uh with the 1300, I revisited it and
it didn't take me long and soon after that I realized that I actually much prefer pumping a slightly faster
foil with better glide um than the slower foils. So when the 1310 came out again, initially I didn't like
it really because it was slower than the 1300. Um but its use case I found a use case for it. Its use
case was really there is still I think I'm right in saying in the axis range of every single foil they've
ever produced. I don't think there's a foil with such early lift at low speeds. So, this foil here, the
1310, if you're a heavyweight and you want to practice the flat water sub paddle ups, that's probably
the foil to go for. For dock starting, I found it had a few little um a few little issues that I it took
me a while to get used to. So, my normal jumping off a ladder and it's and pumping straight away more
often than not would throw me off the foil if I was slightly off balance. But what I figured out was that
if you jump and land on the board and then you just pause and let it glide just for a brief moment and
then once you've got your balance and you're stable then you start pumping no problem at all. And it did
let me pump for longer. And it was incredibly easy how high I could stay on the mast. And if there was
a little micro bump, you could glide. The glide is insane. It it will just glide on on anything. It's
ridiculous. Um very very quick to be overfoiled when the bumps get bigger. Um and for those super super
light wind wing days, um it just blew me away because you could get up with next to nothing. You could
still using your rather than roll. Um you could still do jibes and tacks and uh pump around looking for
uh for bumps, but if you carved it too quickly, especially if you try and come out of a carve too quickly,
it would throw you off very easily. And I also found it had quite an aggressive stall point. Um so for
lightwing, most of the time I went back to the 1300 uh because that was my style. I I preferred that more
glidey feel and the carves are really nice and as long as you you do it in a controlled way, you can carve
in and out of of turns. Um, so that was that. Okay. Then a long time passed and the PGs have had a big
and very very impressive facelift. Um, and a little bit similar to the fact that the 1300 was the standout
in terms of design and style for the whole of the original PNG range, the PNG V200 is a slightly different
design um, in terms of its profile, but also in terms of how it feels. So, let's just have a look at them.
the PNG uh V200. Got a nice big cord here, which it does curve in a little bit, but it's still got quite
wide wing tips. Um it's got a reasonable level of thickness, but it does fit. All of these new ones fit
onto the uh the black fuselage. Um this is a really really good upgrade on the 1150 in my opinion. It
does everything that the 1150 did and still does, but it's a little bit nicer in maneuverability. And
believe it or not, I think it's actually a little bit more forgiving um in every aspect in in dock starting
and pumping. Um now, you're never going to break any duration records by pumping this because there are
so many huge pump foils out there, and we'll get to some of the Axis versions of those in a minute. But
this foil, it really, really does make life very, very easy. And again, for a beginner, for somebody who's
just after a relaxing ride, whether it's winging, whether it's suck foiling, it's a really fun um foil
to to mess around in in small waves. Um it pumps like a dream. It's easy to recover from mistakes. It's
very controllable. Um, it's a little bit on the slow side, but that's what it's designed for. It's not
supposed to be a super quick foil. Um, I've done some very light wind downwinders on Lake Garter and some
of the lakes here in the Netherlands and it's fine for that. It's absolutely fine. When the swell is moving
fast, then you're going to be turning off the back of it a lot um because it's just not fast enough to
uh to to keep gliding on on the same bump. Okay. Then we get to the 1300 and I'm just going to hold up
the 1200 to see the difference between the two of them. That might work a little bit better. I hope it
comes up on the the camera. So those um little bit more high aspect ratio. Let me see this one. The 1200
is aspect ratio 8 and um this one the aspect ratio is 10.36. So, we've got an up in aspect ratio. Um,
I'm not sure the exact thickness, but it it is a little bit faster. It's uh it glides very very nicely
and it pumps incredibly well. So, for somebody who's after a foil that's um I think even easier to do
start than the PNG V200 um and it pumps a little bit faster, you lose a bit of maneuverability. it it's
more locked in, but you can still turn it and it doesn't really throw you off like some of the huge foils
if you get your balance wrong. Um, you do have to be very not aggressive but decisive and firm when you're
carving it. Um, but it will carve. So whether you're a heavier person, because obviously the bigger foils
you go, you could say they're more suited for for heavier and heavier people. But I'm 80 kg and the PNG
V2300 I would definitely use in very very small surf or micro bumps. Amazing for downwinding in bay runs,
that sort of thing. Um for winging again it works really well as a super light wind wing. Um if you're
again heavier but uh yeah it's a very very versatile toil. Um, again, not maneuverable in in the terms
of you can, you know, slash it left, right, left, right, but it'll carve lovely one way. Just be very
decisive carving or or coming out of the carve uh and you'll be fine. Now, PNG V2400, the big brother
of the uh 1300, very similar aspect ratio, just a little bit more at 10.99 rather than uh 10.36. Um, and
I think it's just a size up really from the 1300. I've never found an easier foil to dock start. This
is, I think, the easiest foil I've ever ever dock started with. The consistency I get with this is crazy.
It's a solid platform to to to land on and pump away. You can stay high on the mast really easily. It's
not effortless, but compared to other foils, it feels um like I'm putting in a lot less effort to pump
this than normal. The only caveat I have really to say about the 1400 is that it's beginning to for me
at my weight and my skill level, it's beginning to get to the point where if I don't have um the correct
balance um or if I don't control it really carefully coming out of a turn, then it it can throw me off.
So, if you make a mistake, um it's not particularly forgiving. Um, but again, if you're a heavier rider,
I think that the extra weight that you have will help you to control that. Um, I know a couple of riders
who are 100 kilos plus and they're always on the foil bigger than me and they're having, you know, the
same success doing the same things. So, I think the lighter you are, that sort of um that instability
if you're off balance is going to affect you more if you're lighter and less if you're heavier. Okay.
Now, I want to add another range of foils into here, at least two of the biggest ones because they are
relevant to the flatwood pumping dock starting type uh discussion. And that is the Art Pro 1401 and 1201.
I'll just get Okay, so here we have them. This is the Art Pro 1201. It's got an aspect ratio of 11.14.
There we go. And uh let's compare it first of all to the PNG V200. You can see that that aspect ratio
is completely different and much much thinner. So, obviously it's going to be faster. Um, now I've said
earlier that I like a foil that pumps fast and I love this one. For ages, this was my favorite foil to
pump because I could really accelerate with it. Um, once you got it up to speed, it was pretty easy. um
in terms of being able to pump it for a certain distance or or time. Um and then the 1401 came out and
I honestly cuz I was given a um a pre-production model without the graphics, I honestly don't know the
aspect ratio, but I'm guessing from the looks of it, it's scaled up from the 1201. Um, I believe there
were a few little tweaks to the uh to the design um just to make it better. For example, let's have another
quick look. If you have a look at the wing tips of the 121, they're actually quite wide. But if you have
a look at the wing tips in comparison with the 1401, um, they come to much less width at those wing tips.
Um, now the 1401 in my opinion took over from me in terms of the 1310 in terms of the longest that I could
pump for. I could link more waves. I mean, we're talking on a really, really small day, really small day,
bumps that you could barely even see. I could pump and link more of those tiny little bumps with the 1401
than I could with the 1310. It's still unforgiving of imbalances, but not as much as the 1310. And it's
fairly stiff in terms of maneuverability. But if you turn slow um and you're careful with it, then you
know you're never going to be slashing turns with these huge foils. They are there to do a certain job.
And for me, that job is to pump and link tiny tiny little microbumps. Um, and this one took over from
the 1310 in terms of how incredibly easy it was to do. Um, bear in mind that they came out before the
Art V2, sorry, the PNG V2s. And now again I have to admit that the 1400 and the 1300 V2s PNG V2s have
now taken over from those two art pros. So this is progression. This is um I mean there's so many discussions
online where people are complaining at opposite ends of the spectrum. Some people are complaining that
brands bring out foil ranges far too quickly far too often. Um, other people are complaining that there
aren't enough foils out there for them to choose from and and they want the next level of performance
quicker and quicker and quicker. Um, I don't know about the other brands because I don't speak to the
designers. I'm lucky enough to occasionally have a chat with Adrian from Axis and I'm confident in saying
that he does not release foils just for the sake of it. He has to He has to recognize there's a there's
a gap in our range. We don't have a foil that does this. And he won't release it until it's ready, until
it's as good as he can get it at the time. And then yes, a year, year and a half, two years later, things
have moved forward so much that he can then maybe design a much much better one. Hence the PGs and the
V2s, the arts and the art V2s and so on and so on. Um, so I personally think that if you've still got
an Art Pro 121 or a PNG 1310 and you're still liking it, there's no cause for any problems whatsoever.
But if you're after a different design characteristic, a different performance characteristic, or if you
feel that you have progressed so much that you could handle the next level of performance, then those
are reasons to to maybe upgrade. Um, but like I say, if you're enjoying a foil and it's outdated, as long
as you're enjoying it, who cares? I know people who are still doing everything on the PNG 1010 and 910
um, and they're loving it. So, let's not worry about FOMO. Okay, a few more things to say about the Art
Pro range while they're still here. This is the smallest one that I ever owned, and I did own the full
range from 1401 all the way down to the 951. And I did a big review video on them at the time of their
release. So, if you want all the information that I gave then, um, then please have a look at that video.
But right now, I just want to mention that the 1401 and the 1201 are very much a really good balance between
the top end and the bottom end. They've got a good low end. Um, surprisingly good actually for a a foil
that um that has got really good glide. When you get to the 1121 and the smaller sizes, then they suddenly
become much more high-end orientated. Um, like I say, the 951 was the smallest one that I ever used and
I could use it for winging. I loved it for winging. Um, I think my favorite all round foil was the 101
and the uh the 1051 was again in lighter conditions was really really good. I never used the 1121 that
much, but I think that was more down to the conditions that I was I was falling in and um and the foil
of choice just it wasn't suitable for for where I was and what I was doing. Um but these for winging I
still think are amazing foils. They really are incredible. Um when they first came out that 1001 was my
favorite for winging. I would, you know, if there was any chance that it was um usable according to the
conditions, I would be on that foil pumping or or, you know, trying to make it work. It was so good in
terms of speed, maneuverability, glide was incredible. Um, and I got used to the the high-end at the time.
It it it didn't really cause me any problems. Um, but then when the fireballs came along, that changed
my life. And here they are, at least some of them. I'm not going to get them all out now. I do have the
the whole range down to the 880, the smallest one, uh, that I have now. This is a game changer for me.
The Art Pros were good. They are still good. But with the fireballs, um, Adrian introduced this what I
call an under camber. Um, so this sort of scoop, um, in the bottom side, it scoops towards the trailing
edge in that rear third or the rear half. Um, and there's all sorts going on in the the rest of the design
profile, but um, these marks the beginning of serious user friendliness, serious performance, and being
able to use smaller and smaller foils in terms of area. Now, this is where there's a big debate. Um mainly
it's Adrian leading the charge saying that we should not be comparing foils inside in terms of area. Um
he maintains that it's wingspan that gives us the uh uh the the more accurate sort of measurement. Um
and I think for a while he was absolutely right. Now there are so many so many different um performance
aspects. Uh how do I describe this? There's so much going on in the design now that even wingspan doesn't
always give you a brilliant um estimation of of a foil's performance. Um I think you have to be quite
technical and look at a number of different um pieces of data like wingspan area, you know, has it got
this camber thing going on? Um thickness, the uh the the position on the actual foil where the uh where
the thickest part of the foil is. It used to be that the foils came up with a very blunt end and curved
over. um now they're or some of them anyway are quite thin and they don't get to the thickest point until
about it used to be a third then halfway um back in the foil. So there's so many things going on and we
haven't even discussed you know is it rake curve all these other things. So let's not worry about that
too much. Let's just I'll try and describe why I like these fireballs so much. Their range their range
of use. Um, even though they've got a good such a good bottom end, they don't feel slow. Um, they have
a very very progressive lift. So, gentle progressive lift. Doesn't overfoil. Um, doesn't take you by surprise.
Um, and it's got quite a gentle stall point as well. So, it's not like they suddenly drop out on you.
Um, got plenty of warning and uh, yeah, no nasty surprises. um they just operate in such a wide range
of conditions. So especially with the art pros and before that to a certain extent the arts um if I was
downwinding and you get a nice long downwinder and you have you know maybe the first half is you know
you're pumping a lot because it's quite small swell and then the second half ramps up really big conditions.
Um, with the Art Pros and the Arts, I would find that you'd be fine in one of those sections, but not
both of them. With the Fireballs, chances are you'll be fine. You know, obviously there are limits to
how extreme the range can be, but the fireballs push the limits with the range um of any for that I've
ever used in terms of being able to cope with such a big range of uh um of conditions. Um now, as you
get bigger, the 1350 at the moment is the biggest foil in the range. Um there are going to be, as you
can see, there are going to be um bigger sizes and they will be released soon. Um but at the moment, the
1350 is the biggest one. And I can dock start this from a static position. Just jump onto the board and
pump away. Um and yeah, you got to put effort into pumping because it's a fast foil. And remember, I love
pumping fast foils. Um, and with the Ultra Pro carbon mast, no wobbles, no flex. Um, I can turn it. Now,
if you're lighter than me or you have the aluminium mast, then you might find it a little bit wobbly um
because of its wingspan. Um, but trust me, it is with the the right mast um and boards. If you are it's
a little bit like the the Art Pro 1201. If you are confident and you turn it with, you know, with uh meaning,
you you you don't uh you don't sort of try and turn it. You turn it. You make a decision, you go for it,
and it will turn really nicely. Whereas the same with the 1350, I've been pushing it more and more and
more. Um in small surf with, like I say, with a really stiff mass, you you can actually turn it and surf
it. By the time you get down to the 1250, it actually turns really nice. The 1160 and the 1070 and the
1000 are just all of them are the nicest ones. Like constantly changing between which is my favorite out
of those three. Um by the time I get down to the uh is it the 940 I think um and the 880. Um then for
me at my skill level winging no problem at all. They're amazing. um power winging. I'm I'm now using I'm
pretty sure it is the 940. Um and uh yeah, it's it's just incredible in terms of performance. Um but four
drive surfing, prone surfing or um downwinding, then I'm usually on either the 1000, the 1070, or the
1160. Now again, my weight, my skill level, the conditions that I'm usually foiling and downwinding in,
um, that's why I'm focused on those three foils. But they are, all three of those have got a real special
place for me in my foiling quiver. Um, because they are so good. Um, I will surf with them. I will downwind
with them. um I can pump them all really, you know, better than I thought I'd be able to for fors of their
size. Um but like I said, the 1350 um for people who want to have a light wind wing or for sub paddle
ups or for downwinding any sort of discipline of downwinding um light wind, light small conditions. Um
the 1350 has got amazing glide. It's it's pretty damn fast. um aspect ratio of 13.93. Um yeah, the bigger
sizes. I'll do a review about them later when I'm allowed to. At the moment, bit hush hush still. Okay,
so now it's time for the Arts and the Art V2s. Where are the Arts? Well, I've lent them to somebody. Um
I had the range from the 1099 to the 799. and never owned the uh the smallest uh below the 799. Um in
fact, I gave the 799 to a friend and haven't seen it since. So, obviously, somebody's still enjoying it.
The reason that I haven't got any isn't because they're bad foils. The 899 was one of my favorites for
a long time. The triple 9 was the first foil that I could actually uh prone pump and link waves. And then
the 1099 when I got that again amazing in terms of pumping and linking um for lighter conditions, smaller
conditions. Um they were epic in their time. They were absolutely, you know, just a game changer for for
me and a lot of people. Um and they're still a really good high aspect foil for first time uh for for
a first high aspect foil. Um but again progression through different designs um have revealed I suppose
you could say a few flaws in them. Um they don't tolerate wing tip breaches very well. Um and uh they
do have the bigger sizes uh 9 and 1099 do have quite aggressive lift. Um so for prone foiling that can
catch you out sometimes. Um, but you know, if you can find them, if you can buy them, I don't know, maybe
secondhand, they are still really really good foils. And, uh, yeah, there's there's a lot to be said for
them. Um, the reason I don't have them anymore isn't because I don't like them. It's because there's so
many other foils and I just I can't use them all all the time. Um, the Art V2s, however, I did want to
um uh to point a few things out. Uh very very different. This is the 1099. Very different. Um if you remember
the art, the original arts got very um almost cut off wing tips. Um so classic sort of high aspect foil
just very little difference in in uh in the cord all the way along to the wing tip and then a cut off
wing tip. But uh the RV2s very different um in their design. Um these are faster. Um, I think they're
every bit as good to pump. Um, they turn better. They tolerate wing tip breaches better. They don't feel
surfy. It's weird to say. They they perform great in the surf, but they don't feel surfy compared to some
other foils. Um, so these ones for me, I still use these a lot. This is the 1099, the biggest one in the
range. And this is the 879. I'm not sure if it's the smallest in the range, but it's certainly the smallest
one that I've got. Um the uh the 7 sorry the 979 and the 879 um are my favorite foils here in the Netherlands
when the North Sea gets ridiculously messy and we've got about eight sand bars and there's currents depending
on the tide incoming outgoing um depending on all sorts of things the state of tide the currents all sorts
of things um it can can be very very challenging. Um, you need a foil that can handle speed because it
does ramp up very big very quick. Then it disappears. Then it ramps up very big very quick and and it
just because of all the sand bars. It just does that messy as hell, inconsistent as hell, but fun as hell
when you're on the right foil. And these do the trick. They really do. Um, I did an Instagram post when
I um was using I think it was this the 979 um in exactly the conditions I'm talking about and I put is
it AC/DC um Thunder Struck music to it. So, if you want to see it in action, have a look at my Instagram
um Dominic Hoskins. And yeah, I think it comes across just how fast these things can go, how easy they
are to control in the messiest of conditions. Honestly, I still love these fossils and they are my first
choice in conditions like that because they just cut through everything without wobble, without anything.
Um and yeah, seriously high performance. Um, but in proper surf, um, I would say that they don't feel
as surfy as, um, as the Spitfires and a new range, which I'm not allowed to talk about at the moment at
all, but again, I'll do a separate video on that later. Um, I'm trying to get across why they're not surfy.
They they sort of they turn a little bit like a high aspect foil. Maybe not. I think it's like a cross
between a high aspect and a surf foil. That's how they turn. Um, they they roll real quick. Um, but it's
not that sort of smooth, you know, everything's done at a pace with the RV2s. That's why I love them so
much. Um, obviously when you get up to the 1099, then, you know, everything's slow as you get bigger and
bigger and bigger in foils. Um, but it's still in the right conditions. The 1099 is an amazing performance
foil. Um, winging, surfing, downwinding. Yeah, they're they're sort of like that halfway house. They're
faster than most surfs, but they're not as fast as a high aspect. So, they can deal with most conditions.
Um, in fact, if you asked me for one foil out of the whole Axis range that was sort of like the Swiss
Army knife and it could do well in everything, it would be the Art V2s. Um, even though the Fireballs
have got such I think Fireballs got a big bit better range for each size, but the RV2 isn't that far off.
And um, in terms of pumping, they do really well. Not. Again, I think the fireballs probably beat uh beat
the RB2s in terms of how easy they are to pump. Um because they've got better glide and they're slightly
faster, then they're easier to keep pumping. Um I think the Arts are very good at pumping in their range,
but if you drop out of their speed range, they they can stall on you um not super suddenly, but more suddenly
than the Fireballs. Um, but that's almost like an unfair comparison because the fireballs are so ridiculously
easy to pump and they give you so much notice of uh of when they're going to stall. They It's almost like
they don't want to stall on you. Um, so anyway, that's the RV2s. Got a lot of time for these bad boys.
Um, still a big favorite of mine. Spitfires. Why am I holding up the case or the bag rather than the foil?
Because for me, this is the moment, quite an iconic moment in in my opinion, where Axis changed from their
gray uh I suppose they really changed from the gray covers for their foils over to black with red zips
for the Arts and Art Pros, but really the Spitfire for me marked a change when they came up with a different
color for every new range. And not only do the Spitfire foils hold a special place for me for reasons
that I'll explain in a minute, um, but so do the bags. I look at every time I see one of these Spitfire
bags, I smile. Um, it makes me really happy. Um, yeah, I've spent a lot of time on the Spitfires from
the 1180 all the way down to the 780. That's the smallest one I own. They do, I think, at least two sizes
smaller than that. Um, but the reason I've got the um 840 and the 960 here and none of the other sizes
is because they are constantly being loaned out to people um for all sorts of reasons. Whether it's demoing,
whether it's they they just want to try them for to see if they're ready for progression or they just
want to try a good surf foil for the first time. Maybe they're a beginner, they've been on the big slow
foils, and now they want to try a surf foil to see uh how much of a difference it makes and if they're
ready for it. And for me, I was either surfing with the PGs, the original PGs, I say mostly the 910 and
the uh the 1010, um or the Artle 9 and 1099. Um, I never managed to prone foil with the 899. It was just
too small for me and I I I just couldn't do it. Um, again, I just want to say that the conditions I was
foiling in at the time in Aman were very very small, weak, inconsistent stuff. So, um, I'm going to use
that as an excuse. But anyway, um the point is that when the Spitfires came out, uh I was lucky enough
at the time Adrian sent me a pre-production Spitfire 900. It blew my mind. It felt it just felt perfect
for the the the good surf days in the M, but it also coped with the the mediocre crap that that we got
quite a lot. And um it was faster than the PGs, not as fast as the arts, but it turned so nicely and it
pumped pretty damn well. Um got to stay high on the mast and um you've got to be quite refined with your
pump. I think the arts are much more forgiving. Um the PGs are certainly easier to pump, but they are
slow and uh you know that's that's why that's a tradeoff. But the Spitfires, I could pump the 900 reasonably
well. The 960 I could pump to link quite a lot of ways, more than my legs and and aerobic fitness would
would cope with. Um, and of course, if you get bigger than that in in 1030, 1100, and 1180, um, they just
get easier and easier and easier to pump. But even the big ones, this is the thing about the Spitfire
Orange, even the big ones felt nice to turn. And yes, slower to turn as you get bigger obviously, but
they still had that lovely surfy feel. Um, and the 1180 had a huge range. In fact, I had from,00 1100
down to 840 first and then later on I bought the 1180 and the 780. Um, and once I got the 1180, I don't
think I ever used the 1100 again because the range of the 1180 And the 1030 was so good um that if it
was big enough, if the waves, if the surf was big enough for me to go, hang on, the 1180 it's too big
or I can use a smaller foil. Then I'd jump down to the 1030. I didn't need that 1100 in the middle. Um
but yeah, 960 it that's when um sorry the 1030 and the 960 sort of took over from the PNG 1010 and um
910. But that 900 was such a special foil because um I could just surf the waves at the time faster, turn
harder. Um, it just everything was just better. It really was. So, this range holds a real special place
in my heart, in my foiling quiver. Um, I'll never get rid of them. I lend them out a lot, but I'll never
get rid of them. Um, here in the Netherlands, when we get our weak, crappy, mushy waves, they're perfect
for that. Not so much the absolutely chaotic crap that the North Sea can can throw at me where I told
you that they are V2s. that's where they excel. That's where my choice. But for the, you know, the slower
um sort of waves, um I love them. Absolutely love the Spitfires. And uh yeah, for the demo fleet for full
drive, when I go out and do the events, the Spitfires are so user friendly, but still capable of, you
know, unless you're a pro pushing the limits, then I can imagine they'd probably hold you back. Um, but
for for nearly everybody, the Spitfires, I think, um, in the right conditions, amazing foils. Now, this
is not only the last range of foils in this video, but this is where we go to another level. So, here
it is. This is the Tempo. This one is the 1020 with the Skinny 30 rear and obviously the titanium fuselage.
Um, the whole thing is almost futuristic. The build quality and the performance is off the charts. It's
incredible. Like I said, when I first saw it, I thought that's beyond my capabilities. I'm so glad Adrian
almost forced me to try it because I was absolutely blown away by how easy it was to use. Now, right,
it's not a beginner foil. It's definitely not a beginner foil. You've got to have a reasonable level of
of skill um to be able to cope with it. Um but it's a lot easier than I thought. And I think I'm pretty
confident that this will be accessible to a lot more people, way more people than just the elite. It's
it's not confined to the elite. I mean, it's it's designed for the elite for sub foil downwinding. Um,
but it's so much more than just that. Um, I think for winging, it'll be amazing. I mean, I don't do much
winging anymore because I'm much preferring power winging, but I am going to bust out the wings again
simply so I can use this foil setup with wind wings and just be able to report back to say how it felt,
how it performed. Um, I can tell you that for downwinding, uh, for me with full drive, uh, downwinding,
these are amazing. Um, and for power winging, these are again, these are amazing. Um, so I, this is why
I'm so confident that for winging, they will be really, really good as well. Um, I haven't used them in
the surf yet, but I know people who have and they like them. For me, my first impressions are that they're
not a surf foil. They'll you'll be able to use them in the surf, especially if you're a really good level.
But, um, right, let's start with the performance characteristics. The speed and glide is off the off the
charts, off the scale, whatever you like. Um, but it doesn't feel like raw crazy dangerous speed. It feels
like, you know, you're confident at speed because it's so stable, because it's so efficient and glidy.
You you feel like you can go faster, faster, faster, and you know, you don't feel like you're losing control.
Um, turning. They are as loose as hell. Um, and this is why I'm saying that I don't think they're going
to be any good for beginners. Um, but as long as you've got a reasonable level of control of a foil that's
got, you know, that's loose on its roll axis, then you'll be absolutely fine. Um, don't get me wrong,
they don't feel skittish. They don't feel like you're out of control or or or dangerous in any way whatsoever.
It's just what I noticed was that any amount of toe or heel pressure or or you know, how whatever you
so many different ways to initiate a carve. Um but they will keep rolling until you stop them. Whereas
a lot of the surf oil foils, they'll start carving and you push down on them and you you carry on pushing
with that same pressure to, you know, complete the carve. And then obviously you're you know, pivoting
and twisting and changing the angle of roll and your and everything else. Um, but with these, if you keep
pushing, they'll they'll keep rolling. So, you've just got to, you know, grip with your toes, with your
ankles, with your calves, um, with your, you know, your knees, thighs, everything that you use to control
roll and and turning. Um, you've you've got to be on it. it. I will reiterate, it's not that they get
out of control. Um, when I first started playing around with them, that roll axis sort of took me by surprise
a little bit. Uh, I think it was the similar feeling that I got when I used the Tacuma 980 for the first
time, coming off big slow foils, and suddenly I was on the Tacuma 8 980. It was like, whoa. After 10 minutes,
I was like, okay. And after 20 minutes, I was like, this is amazing. I can control it. doesn't take long
to get used to and once you can control it, it's it's really not a problem. It's funny. So, what I am
going to do right now, I've just noticed that uh this little edge here where you put your bolts in, that's
supposed to go there. And with a screwdriver, a crosshair, a Phillips head, you then tighten that up.
And yeah, that's nicely locked in position. And now it's smooth as hell. There's no drag from the bolt
holes uh or from the uh the heads of the bolts. Really nice touch. Um but it is sharp. And the uh you
know, it's machined out of titanium. Sharp. Be careful. Um, so gliding speed, I've not found a top end
yet. I just feel like it can go faster and faster and faster, um, and retain control. Um, I am convinced
that these are going to be one of my favorite foils. And again, um, every foil has got its own specific
design characteristics and they will suit specific conditions and different styles of riding from whoever's
using them. Um, so yeah, I think I think these are going to be difficult to beat in terms of what they
do. How do they stack up against the other foils, especially the fireballs? Well, the fireballs are definitely
easier to use. Um, they're not quite so high performance. If you are capable of a higher level of performance,
then I think these pump I mean pumping on flat water. I've not actually done any flat water foiling with
these yet. So, just getting up on foil full drive and then just pumping around on flats. I haven't done
that yet. I've done that a lot with the fireballs. Super easy. Um, these ones, they do need more speed
to keep going. Once you've got that speed and glide going, they're just so efficient. Um, make it easier
to pump. So, I can't say that one or the other is easier to pump because pumping in different conditions
is very different. Pumping keeping pumping to keep you going when you're downwinding, these will win.
um pumping in every other aspect whether it's linking waves or or um flat walls I suppose uh then I think
the fireballs will be easier to pump but again people who are very very very good will probably be able
to do that with these as well but I think even they would probably say yeah the fireballs are easier um
so I think that's about all I have to say about everything that I wanted to talk about. So if there are
any questions, I will do my very best to answer. Um, but in the meantime, please bear in mind that this
is how I have found all these foils. Um, those are the characteristics that I have sort of gleaned through
my use, my skill level, my style of riding, the conditions that I ride in. And it's different for everybody.
So, I will try very hard to answer any questions that you throw at me. But questions like which is the
best foil for me? I don't know your skill level, your style of riding, the conditions you ride in, all
the above and more, you know. Um, so if you've got any questions, try and be specific um because I don't
have a huge amount of time, but I'll do my best. All right, thanks guys. Catch you later.