I'll start with the tempo in the the titanium fuselage. This was started I guess last year we had our
fireball and they were all around 13 aspect ratio pretty much and they fitted on the existing black fuselage.
When we released the fireball, we'd already done some testing on some much higher ones around uh 15 aspect
ratio and we knew that they were better, but we were running into problems trying to get that to fit onto
that room. Um, back in the day, we had the red fuselage for the the big cord thick wings and then as as
uh time went on, we uh used the the black fuselage and that's been a really good fit for everything so
far that's got a bit more cord. with these ones being so narrow and so thin, it's really really hard to
get it was never going to work to fit them on there. So, we had to um develop a new fuselage system. Um,
another big part of the problem with this wing is that it's so thin. It's less than 10 mil stiff there.
And to get that so that it just didn't snap off was quite a big deal. We had a lot of them snap off. We
had a lot of people swimming for kilometers at a time out at sea with only half a wing. That &gt;&gt;
Yeah, he knows how to swim. &gt;&gt; Not Not easy. Not easy to get that to work. So, I'll take this apart
so you can see how it works. It has uh two grub screws in the front and inside this is all titanium. And
then inside of the the front end is a expansion plate. So these grub screws go through, hit the expansion
plate and it comes off. So that just comes off. That's this top plate here is uh stainless steel and this
in the middle here is a screw with a spring underneath it. And that actually pulls the stainless steel
up. And the reason it pulls it up is to create a slight clearance so that you can slide the wing on there
easily. Um, when those grub screws go through, they hit they hit the expansion plate. These are a low
uh low pitch um M8 screw. So, they're 1 mm pitch. So, like a quarter of a turn is 0.25 of the mil. 0.25
of a mil is about how much you need to expand that to tighten it. Probably put that back on again. You
just whack it on. It's, you know, it's a little bit loose at that stage. And then you just tighten the
grub screws up and it expands inside. We played around with a lot of different methods to get the titanium
to tighten onto that hole inside there. We initially had a a titanium fuselage with a a cut through it
and it had a little tab that that moved and it it kind of worked pretty well, but it relied on when it
opened, it only pushed on that that one point. And the back end of the fuse here, this had to rely on
the titanium being the exact size uh and the the molding being exact. there was a was a perfect tolerance
and it also is kind of difficult to get it on and off. So with the expansion plate it gets exactly the
right tension that it needs every time. Um the grub screws stop it falling off. So even though I haven't
tightened it up you can get it off because it's it's you know the grub screws are in there. So you tighten
it finger tight to start with and then you put the key in and do about a quarter turn. So I'm heading
for about here. That's all you do. Just a quarter turn. You don't need to do any more than that. And that
is totally rigid. But if you try and feel with your fingers on there, there is no movement in that joint.
That's the stiffest join that we've been able to achieve to hold everything together. Feel really good.
The back end is a is a similar setup. It has just one screw to tighten it up. And one of the things about
this is that this wing being so high aspect and being so thin, it's very low drag. and existing fuselage
and and in fact fuselage from any company that you can choose is actually way way too thick. You can't
actually get a really thin high aspect wing like this. You can't expect that to work on a big chunky fat
fuselage. There's just too much drag on the center section to make that work. That aluminium fuser we've
got there, we've done some new uh dock start pump wings that are 1500 span, 1750 span, and that works
fantastically for that. So it's kind of as the sport is evolving, it is sort of spreading itself out and
there's things that are specific for this or specific for whatever. You can't necessarily have one size
fits all. Remind me to talk about mask at some stage. So that comes off the back and it has an expansion
plate on on the back of there as well. You'll notice that there's a a cover plate on here. Well, you you
can kind of hardly see it, but there is a cover plate on there for the screws. So that has a a little
screw in there and you undo that and there's your two screws tighten onto the head there. The the edges
of this are ridiculously sharp. You got to be really careful not to cut yourself there. But when it does
go together because the edges are so perfect there it's almost seamless. Most people like if they're riding
the the tempo set up they have their mask and they put this on kind of once and then that's done. So once
that's on, uh, a lot of people use it. It stays on. And the fuselage cover that's got a hole for the mast
in the bottom of it that just goes around the whole thing and stays on there. So if that's in the back
of your car, it doesn't smash your car or smash the fuselage. The wings, the biggest one is uh 1090 span
uh, and the smallest one at the moment is um 890s fan. Um, and we have a bunch of rear wings. that one
that was on there. There's a there's a 30 and they go the largest one's 45 and the smallest is 25. Bit
of 25 here. It's your favorite. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they're they're much stiffer than the other skinnies that
are narrow. &gt;&gt; They are. And that's actually a really good question. all of these wings. Like when
we uh were racing and kind of a long story, but it's worth it. When we're in uh Hawaii, we had guys racing
on the the whole new tempo system. It was actually going really well, but it had the the old tab system,
so the fit on the front wasn't quite perfect. And you know, we were weing bits of aluminium and there
to try and make it fit every time. And you know, that needed fixing. The expansion plate in there has
made that much better. One of the other things that we really felt is that we' done an awful lot on the
wings and the fus that was working great, but we felt like the mass needed more work, but we're in Maui.
The races were in 2 weeks. We didn't have time to build a new mold and do everything else. And we knew
that was our next project. And then I actually saw one of the guys at the beach um sanding all day and
he sanded the whole um carbon layer off the outside of his his front wing. you sanded through the whole
thing and it got me to thinking we could probably sand one of the um last that we got. So I actually found
um Perth's mast and we with Frank we we ground the woven carbon off the outside. Now, every foil that
you see anywhere has woven carbon on the outside. And that's always been done right since day one. And
the reason that's there is that it's a the woven carbon is is thicker and it's like a sort of felty surface.
So, it actually gives room to, you know, fix everything out when it's being pressed. So, it evens it out
and makes it look pretty smooth and pretty nice. Um, so but it's it's just it's normal carbon, normal
modulus carbon, and it's woven. Carbon to be really effective has to be in a straight line to be in tension.
Uh, and the woven carbon because of the woven effect, it's kind of like a spring, so it's not as stiff.
Underneath that woven carbon, again, on all the wings inside of there is unidirectional carbon. And that's
carbon is all running in one direction. It's very, very thin. Typically the woven carbon is about uh 0.5
just over 0.5 thick uh and the unicarbon is about 2 of a mil thick very very flat. So m wings all built
with unicarbon but with a carbon on the outside. So the mast that we had we sanded all of the woven off
the outside. It was relatively easy to see where you're going. You could just sand through it. Um we managed
to get 1.1 mil off the thickness of the mast. um sanded it, feed it, and FTH was the first had a Yahoo
on it. I think you did a you do an M2M run practice or something. Can't remember now, but came back in
and said, "That's great. That's fantastic." And there was no negative effect from it. It didn't actually
feel uh less stiff. So, it got me to thinking that could probably do a lot better with the wings. And
like if you think of the the the tips of these wings here, it's probably only 2 1/2 mil thick, you know,
through here. And you got to figure that 1.1 mil of that was woven carbon, which is, you know, not useless,
but not very good. So what we did, you know, they got the factory to build the same wing, same mold, but
remove the woven carbon and replace it with unicarbon. And first wing they built, they did a vent test.
So they put load cells on 100 mls in from the end and they just push down 200 kg and they measure how
much the wing bends. And the original one bent 38 mil and the one with the revised unicarbon bent 25 mil.
So it's like 25% stiffer just by revising the laminate. So we did the rear wing as well. And I mean that's
even more obvious because it's so thin and it made these wings like you know you can barely bend that.
It's really really stiff. And the wings we had earlier than that, they were just flexible. That was all
we could do. So we all the guys that raced the the the Maui race series um M2M and the M2, we had nine
out of the top 20 were riding Axis. And since then, actually quite a few others have changed over to Axis.
So I'd say this foil setup is probably the dominant downwind foil setup on the market at the moment. and
it's going really well and we're pretty stoked with built that. Kai has been racing on it and he started
on the uh the early the fireballs when he when he joined on and then started with all of this stuff and
apart from like since Maui racing he's pretty much run every race in Hawaii, Northshore, Oahu, uh France,
everywhere since then basically. So this was my wing I used for all the Hawaii races. That's a 920 and
I never felt like I needed anything bigger. Um, straight up the races I ended up trying the small one.
I wish I'd used that for all the races. Um, the speed and carry from them is is actually insane. And for
all of France, I use the 1020 and that's the 650 area one that that is my if conditions are questionable,
that's the wing I'll take. Um, the range on that is insane. you know, I can do 145s up to 230s and you
get comfortable in all those ranges. So, I've been trying them and they've they've treated me really well.
&gt;&gt; I'd say with the the tempo, I've always I've used it a lot uh winging and if you com if I compare
it to the the fireball, say the 102 is the main one I use. It gets about the same as the TH00and uh fireball,
but once you're actually up, it actually feels like the stall speed is actually a lot better. So, it'll
go a lot slower. It'll also definitely go a lot faster. So, it it's a lot less wing, but it's actually
given a whole lot more. So, &gt;&gt; how much of that do you think is due to the the reduction in drag?
&gt;&gt; Well, it's both. It's both. Um, it's the same air section. It's the same for section that we
use in the fireball, but it's just so much less area. There is less there to slow you down, and it's it's
noticeable. like when you back off whatever's driving you it just carries on running. Um a lot of the
time in the racing I was in a boat with Shannon and at one stage we were going alongside one of the twins
and Edo and Edo was he was pumping. He pumped that whole entire race just pumping entirely and Twin was
running next to him and he was just doing a little every now and again just every now and again. And if
you watch Kai racing there not an awful lot of pumping going on. is just running. They run free. There's
very little drag in them and you you kind of have to do a whole you have to learn to do a bit less. I
I've noticed quite a few people on their first run, they're trying to pump like crazy on it and you know,
you got to tell them just to back off, let it do its work. It'll it'll do it. &gt;&gt; So then you'd expand
other ranges into that fuselage. Um &gt;&gt; yep. Yeah. Given time we will. This titanium fuselage is
not a cheap thing. Um, everything about it is designed to be the very best it can be and I think it will
be very applicable for other things. We have some uh wing foil race front wing back wing setups that will
fit on this and they're relatively close. There's still a bit of work to go on those. Um, and who else
knows who knows what else we'll do on there in the future. It really uh this system suits you know narrow
cord thin high performance wings. the surge wings, you know, we didn't actually need to we didn't need
to put those on here. We could have, but we wanted them to be ready for anyone to use on their existing
setup. And there's not really any compromise with that. They fit perfectly fine. &gt;&gt; How hard is
to write the table if you're going? &gt;&gt; Not hard. It's really not hard. Um I think to get the best
out of it, you've got to be a good writer. But, um, I've had a bunch of people demo it and they've kind
of gone, why why wouldn't this is winging? Why wouldn't I just ride that as my my general wing? It's it's
not really like it looks ridiculously small in area. Um, but it get like the 102 version gets up about
the same just a thousand fireball and once you're up it's &gt;&gt; those fireballs that you me &gt;&gt;
they're very user friendly and I'm a heavy boy. of these. These are even more so. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I was
very surprised how for I thought, "Oh, yeah. This is easy." &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; The other guy. So,
this is my everyday. &gt;&gt; It's supposed to be easy, I think. And I've actually had quite a few people
come off. I had one guy, uh, Thiago Campos, and, um, he had actually the year before, uh, he was riding
an art pro 1051 or something like that. And right at the start of one of the Maui races, I walked past
and saw he was got and I was like, "Should really be on the fireball." And I sort of walked around and
I went back and said, "Look, you know, we should, you know, put you on the fireball." And he said, "I
can't I can't race on a wing I've never used." And I said, "Oh." And I walked away and came back and said,
"I think you can." I think you're going to just get over. We just bolted the thousand on. And he went
out and send it on on a wing he had never used before. And I saw him at the end of the race. I said, "How
was that?" He said, "Perfect." And again this year we got there and it was the same again. He had his
fireball 1000 and I walked past and I was like he's hitting a 102. So we put a 102 on. He he paddled out
rode it unused and he was totally comfortable on it. So that if you've been on that platform it's not
hard to to swap over to it. It's pretty comfortable &gt;&gt; only easier. &gt;&gt; I think a testament
to that as well is Shannon's daughter. Um &gt;&gt; Roxy's been learning to downwind. Um, but she left
at the gorge and it's 16 aspect wing. She learned to downwind on the 1090. &gt;&gt; Super easy. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, there is that. &gt;&gt; Wouldn't they be too fast for the gorge? &gt;&gt; No, they're actually
okay over there. I mean, ideally at the gorge, most people are not interested in going anywhere fast.
And the surge is the one over there. Yeah, she was just learning. So she wanted to get up and stay up
and glide and it worked perfectly for her for that. &gt;&gt; There's another thing I've been harping on
about for many many many years and that is that that when you're describing or comparing one wing to another
wing um the the industry has basically done it by area and to me that's the craziest silliest idea. And
as evidence of that, we've got the ART V2 999. That's 10. It's it's thousand span and it's 1024 in area.
Um, we've got the Fireball 1,000. Uh, it's also meter wide. Um, and that is 773 and the 102 is 650. So,
you've got 10 183 650. Three different areas. They get up exactly the same. The range on on this one,
the 650, is is way better bottom end and way better top end once you're up. Why are we comparing areas?
Areas have never really made sense, but with the new foils that are higher aspect and higher camber, it
makes even less sense than it ever did to try and compare areas. The only way that I can compare any wings
span for me is a bit of a guideline and it works quite well. But the only real way that you can compare
one wing with another is to actually have the exact design file for that wing, run CFD on it and and get
all the info and then I get all graphs. And I do the same calculated right away and I've got a bunch of
graphs and I can lay them on top of each other and I can see exactly which one will get up earlier where
it tops out. You can compare exactly. You can see exactly what it is. That to me is the only way that
you can compare two two foils. But area that's just annoys. &gt;&gt; Have you ever calibrated any of those
measurements with like getting behind the boat or testing it in a real? So that that calculation we've
done there that's exclusively on a front wing doesn't even have a fairing on it. It's just the front wing.
You've also got the fuselage. You put a bit of mast you rear wing and a whole bunch of other stuff going
on there. So it's not the whole solution. We have actually done CFD on the whole entire thing with a set
amount of mast in there and we've actually run it through a a series of turns and you get a so much d.
It takes 24 hours or more to run it, to actually get all that data, but the data you get back is pretty
daunting. And to try and interpret that meaningfully and make any sense of it, I don't think we're not
really at that stage yet. But it's very easy to do a wing and find out exactly what it's doing. &gt;&gt;
So options then you decide then okay we if you're stuck with it just go with span but don't use area.
So if you're moving from one fork to another, like I said, &gt;&gt; the best way to do it on span you
span. But the best way to do it is to actually take it out for riding. You can do that to your friendly
shop. That's the best thing in the world. &gt;&gt; What's camber? Does anyone know cam camber? Camber.
It's there's a &gt;&gt; section of a section &gt;&gt; sort of. Yeah. So, &gt;&gt; so &gt;&gt; a lot of
people have been a lot of people have been uh looking at the reflex like the back of this wing has a a
reflex and a hollow in there that kind of indicates that it's got some some camber, but camber is actually
a line. If you cut that wing in half and then look at it from the end, you've got the the top of the foil
and you've got the bottom of the foil and there's an imaginary line. It's a real line, but you can't see
it. That's halfway between the top and the bottom. So, that's your camber line. You also have a chord
line. And the chord line goes from the the center of the leading edge, center of the trailing edge, that's
a dead straight line. So, if that was 100 mm of cord, and the distance to the camber was 2.5 mil, that's
a 2 1/2% camber. The higher the camber, the higher the lift. Most of the Spitfires, the old Art Pros,
they were 2 1/2% camber, which is kind of considered now to be a relatively neutral. Four section is not
not that lifty, but it does run quite fast. This one here has 3.7% camber, and that creates really, really
good lift at low speed, and that's what gives the great glide to this, the fireball, and the search. They've
all got a very similar foil section. Thank you, Lou. that that's saying that the underside is actually
contemp because it's still thin. So you can not no it's the underside being concave that's a slight distraction
you know you you actually got to look at the line that's half between the top and the bottom forget the
detail in the bottom forget the detail in the top it's the line that's halfway in between that you kind
of can't see &gt;&gt; and where the high point is on that chord. So you call that an loaded section. &gt;&gt;
Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. after loaded sections generally as they go faster they have a slight pitching down
moment too. They want to tip down and uh you need to correct that with a rear wing as well. So it gets
more and more involved or more detailed you go into it. Um another thing that we've done that started
with the Spitfire um is we did a a straight median line. So if you take the Spitfire, the the thickest
point, it's about just over a third back from side to side is a dead straight line. So the center of lift
on that foil roughly is a in a dead straight line. So that means whether you're going slowly or fast,
it's it's kind of in that straight line. earlier wings they were a lot more raked back and we we kind
of thought that rake backness um made them more turning but I don't believe it actually does these are
all straight median line and they turn since this one they all turn beautifully by having that all in
a straight line what that does is it doesn't adjust it doesn't need so much correction at various speeds
so you can get away with a lot smaller rear wings like that 25 rear wing that we had out before I don't
think anyone's got as a rear wing that's anywhere near as small as that and it totally comfortable with
the tempo that because this is a straight new line. It doesn't have a flip back in the tip. That's just
straight. So everything's kind of lined up. I know that other people have tried that 25 mil cord wing
on their high performance race foils and not being able to use it, not being able to get it worked. And
I I think it's because of a straight Nian line. Any other questions on the tempoye type stuff? &gt;&gt;
So, the guild is solid carbon. There's nothing in the core. &gt;&gt; There's no room for core, &gt;&gt;
but it's a carbon core, not titanium or anything. &gt;&gt; No, no, it's But one of the the the tricky
things um with building it is like right there there's there's about 60 something layers of of um pre
prag carbon wedged in there. and pre Preer Uni Carvin, it's a little bit like a sticky piece of paper
that's got spray glue on each side. So, you've got to lay it up exactly right, you know. So, when we design
that, we actually design the layout and the prep carbon gets pulled out on a on a table, vacuumed down,
and blade cut. And it's all labeled from the center out once you actually build your wing. To lay out
that many layers and not get a wrinkle in the carbon is very, very difficult. And if you get a wrinkle
in the carbon, the wing just ends up breaking, especially around the the center here where the son is
loaded. So we worked out some tricky ways of building that so that they didn't we were able to hold a
lot of carbon in straight lines. And that's one of the keys to making this work that the the the layup
that we've done on this the way that we did the layup and with having the uni carbon on the outside has
actually given us the confidence to carry on going even further than this with our but even more high
aspect with our next wings. We were kind of on a limit with this but when we worked out that laminate
and the strength and where to build it we've we've actually got ideas on where we go further from that.
If the uni gives you so much stiffness, why would you rub uni on the surge? &gt;&gt; It is uni inside
of it. On the outside. &gt;&gt; The outside. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Just because it's such a thick chunky wing.
It doesn't really matter. &gt;&gt; You don't need it. You probably couldn't even feel the difference on
that thickness of wing. &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's it's very hard. The the uni it's a bit messy. &gt;&gt; Uh
and the the finish on this if you take it out in the light and hold it in the sun will actually the the
the clear coat on it is 30% black. So that you can't actually see what a mess it is, but if you hold it
in the light, you can't actually see the lines of the uni and stuff. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So it's it's
harder to build a wing like that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; But it's necessary for a wing like that.
&gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Not necessary for that. Perfect. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Any minus feeding on the outside
now? &gt;&gt; We played around with that, but they're actually um they're of a thickness that we couldn't
actually get a benefit from them. Yeah. that you come out your fe. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we're working on that.
Don't you worry. &gt;&gt; If that sort of covers that, I'd like to go into the surge. I'll have a bit
of a ramble about it and then we'll get Luke who's the coaster boy. So, that this is our new surge wing.
And it took a few goes to get this this right. It's basically similar for section. So, it's really uh
good lift, but not too slow. Uh really good range. We've kind of kept a straight median line in it. I
guess the big thing about that is the is the turn down and turn up. I call it the gross mustache effect.
And um we to start learning about that. We had our fireball 1000 and I rebuilt fireball 1000 with the
same outline, same foil section. Everything was the same, the same twist. The only thing I changed was
the the turn down and the turn up, the gross mustache business. And then we tested it back to back and
it was uh slightly slower to get up. It was um definitely slower top speed. So if you're building a race
foil, you don't want a lot of upsy downsy business in it. And you don't want that is that a foil creates
lift at 90° to the foil. So if you can imagine a fin a foil exaggerated turning down a long way and then
turning up a long way, you've got your vectors and they end up pointing outwards and then they point inwards.
I've exaggerated it just for for effect. But you end up with vectors that are pointing out and vectors
pointing in and these ones are basically arguing with each other which creates drag and it's not efficient
&gt;&gt; of energy &gt;&gt; waste of energy. So uh but in saying that it does make the wing feel narrow.
So that thousand span fireball with the gross mustache in it actually felt kind of narrower and it actually
rolled side to side easier. Part of the reason also for it is that the the tip facing up is less efficient
for actually lifting you, I think, but it still has water flowing over it. So, it acts like a smaller
wing, so it's easier to roll. And the water flying over the tips actually creates some stability. It also
helps with tip breach. And there's some other weird benefits that we sort of ran into. Um, and that is
having the upsy downsy business. If you're jumping and then trying to land on the foil again with the
wing being bent up and down, it seems to give just a millisecond of chance for this to actually get itself
together again when it hits the water before the next bit. Whereas when it was flat, it just it's very
hard to land without it crashing. We tried quite a few different versions of the surge and one of the
things that made this one work quite well is if you just look at the bit between my hand there, it's it's
actually relatively flat. Um, we did another one that was more of an arc through the middle. And with
more of an arc, it rolled really well side to side, but when it rolled over, it tended to lock into a
turn and that was it. You're sort of stuck with that turn. This one here, it's quite progressive and it
feels it actually feels really like a surfboard. It'll lay over into a turn. But if you're surfing on
a wave and looking up at the wave face and you see it breaking over, you can just go straight up and and
whack at it. It's freer and easier to turn. Um, doesn't lock into a turn. Tip reaches really well. It's
great in white water. If you see the videos of Luke riding, it kind of explains a lot of how good it is
with for surfing. Also really good for pumping, too. Like, uh, Luke is lightweight, KG. And I saw him
pull out a waves that that you know pump 500 m out to sea to the next wave and then catch the peak and
ride it back in again repeatedly. Like it's it pumps very very well. The guys actually used it in the
dock staff competition and worked really well for that. So very versatile wing. I know probably said too
much. Have a go. &gt;&gt; How we going? This is Luke. &gt;&gt; I'm Luke. Um yeah. So, been riding the
Surge now for just a bit over 6 months. Um, been doing various comps and riding various conditions. Um,
890 has been my go-to pretty much. Um, mainly because there was two sizes made to start off with and the
rest of the sizes have come rather recently. So, the 830 I think that will become my next, you know, main
main prone wing do it all. Um, but like until then, the 890 has been good for sub paddle, parow winging,
winging, um, prone foiling, pretty much anything you can throw at it. They lift super nice, super comfortable.
They don't really have that aggressive lift. So, it's really nice for particular like, you know, for me,
prone foiling. you get up on a wave, you know it's going to gradually come up and you can engage the foil
straight away and kick out to the next wave if you need to or jump straight into turns and um just kind
of know it's going to be reliable. As Adrian was saying with the upturn wing tips as well as you kind
of lay it over it just gives you that little bit more angle I think angle of attack as it comes out of
the water so it doesn't re-enter so flat and grab bubbles. And even looking at um videos and things as
that kind of wing tip comes back down, you can kind of see the bubbles get to about here and then they
just wash off. So they tip breach very very nicely. And you know for the 890 I can surf this thing. My
old main wing was a 780 Spitfire. I can surf this probably even harder than I could the Spitfire 780 and
pump it 10 times longer as well. They're really really impressive wings and yeah, I've never really looked
back after jumping onto these. Um, as Adrian said, the dock starting in Croison, we were riding the 1010s.
Kai, myself, and Gray. &gt;&gt; Gray. Yeah. Another 100 kilo rider. So, we were all uh riding. Yeah. Riding
the 1010 and um yeah, did really well on those. Gray made it to the finals in Centrope and I made it to
the finals in Kuzon. Unfortunately fell on the start and you know, blew my chance. But yeah, they were
very super reliable on dock start as well. And I think a lot of the Euros that kind of jumped on said
said the same thing. You know, some of the best dock starting wings that they tried. So yeah, really really
friendly. And um for me at 100 kilos like the 890 is kind of do it all. Um it packs way above above its
weight in terms of lift and then turning side to side. Tips out. Yeah. All day long. No problems. &gt;&gt;
Is the surge replacing the um fast? &gt;&gt; The surge is a surge. It did not replace it as &gt;&gt; I'm
not sure &gt;&gt; it did for me. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it did for me. I suppose it depends what we want. Like
I really like the Spitfires for CL foiling. We do a lot of CL foiling as well. Um but just having that
kind of flat section and a lot of area is kind of nice. You can slow it right down and you know do some
pretty unique stuff. Um, I haven't actually tried kite foiling with the surges, but once I jumped on the
surge proning, I never went back to the Spitfire. &gt;&gt; Like a beginner going to intermediate stage,
you can just go for it. &gt;&gt; In terms of lift, like I find the Spitfire sometimes like on a takeoff
or if you get a bit out of control or too much speed, it can really like jump up and lift really aggressively.
Whereas this, I don't really find that it kind of lifts and you can control it really easily. Um &gt;&gt;
a bit also I go I'm in the video but um when you go for a bit of turb &gt;&gt; like bubbles or really
you know foamy &gt;&gt; super com um it's a bit more better than a Spitfire. &gt;&gt; Yeah the Spitfire
feels almost you know like you're driving down a gravel road with no suspension and this thing just kind
of it softens you through it. Um it yeah it deals with turbulence and bubbles and everything really really
well. like hitting the white water. It was, you know, not guaranteed with the Spitfire or the other wings.
But with this one here, pretty much just every single time handles it and lands perfectly. &gt;&gt; Yeah,
it's a twist down. Yeah. Is it a less angle or tough on the tips? &gt;&gt; It's got the same wash out
on the tips that all of our other wings have had. &gt;&gt; So, it should be the same with that, but I
think it's more to do with the gross mustache business. I think just with the angle, like if you imagine
the wing continues down this way and you tilt it up, you know, and you tip breach, it's kind of breaching
at a flat. And I find anytime you come out of and it's too flat, the bubbles are just going to shoot right
back to the um fuse every time. So just having that extra bit of angle of attack as you come out of the
water and coming back in, it just lets those bubbles slide right off. And then even if you are a little
bit flatter, I've had multiple videos where it just doesn't really get past that bend. So yeah, super
super super friendly and just kind of does everything. I I would say there's a lot of there's a lot of
lessons like it it's kind of logical looking back at it now like the um the Spitfire we learned a lot
with that um for turning you know with the straight median line and also the taper that's got quite a
bit of cord in the middle and it tapers quite a bit and we've experimented with that a lot and the earlier
versions of this tempo it was actually narrower in the middle with a wider tip and that was actually much
harder to to get it to hold together to snap here all the time. So we actually widened the the cord in
the middle and increased the taper and it made it a lot stronger, made it a lot more stable around the
center section of the wing, but it also uh lessened uh the resistance to roll. So it turns really naturally
and easily. It feels really comfortable ride. That's got the same thing on the other. All the lessons
that we learned in all the various wings like right through the big dock start wings. They all carry through
to the other wings. All all the lessons seem to cross over. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I mean, in terms
of size as well, um, like Adrian said, like running wingspan is a pretty accurate size comparison. U,
you know, if you're looking, if you've been coming off the RV2s, I'd be looking, you know, if you're on
the triple 9, I'd be probably looking towards the 890, maybe the 950. Um, depends on your level and weight.
Um, and then, you know, if you're on the 819, probably jumping down to the 830 is probably going to be
a good transition. Like I said, coming off the Spitfire as I was on the 780 did obviously jump up a little
bit, but that's just cuz what was available now there's the 830. That's what I'm going to be riding mostly.
And um, yeah, pretty pretty sick. And then paired up with the surf skinnies as well. So my main surf skinny
is the 300. I find that pumps really well. pretty much pumps better than the progressives, turns better
than the skinnies, and turns just as well as a progressive. So, you know, it's kind of for me was that
perfect fill in the gap. Um, I never really liked the uh the skinnies for surfing. Just found it drew
out the turns too much and you couldn't really, you know, get as maybe radical as you'd like to, whereas
those, you know, you super comfortable to whip it a bit harder and um know that you've still got some
glide and ar there if needed to. So yeah, &gt;&gt; it was amazing to watch Luke in the surf event in Croissant
and the judges had come from a full-on surf background or a surfing judges and they were blown away to
actually see foil and get to a level where it's fully surfing caring terms rather than a week or you know
there was he was gouging some turns and look like he was surfing a proper surfboard. It was great to see
&gt;&gt; and it was yeah super comfortable trans like as soon as I jumped off the Spitfire to that it
was just at home you know felt good. So &gt;&gt; what day would you like to use with the &gt;&gt; uh the
300 C? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the 280 um I just wanted a little bit more pump like for me at
my weight I wanted a little bit more pump. And then jumping to the 320 I wanted it to be a little bit
looser. So 300 was the perfect gap for me. Whereas I know Kai and I think Perth over here as well will
ride the 280 mainly. And then Sven, you on the 300? &gt;&gt; 320. &gt;&gt; So &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt;
Senn is a big fellow and he's used them quite a bit. Um you you probably got something to say about him.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I use the 950 quite often like conditions today for downwinding like surf down windows
and it was it was really fun and I was really impressed. I did yesterday the day before at poor beach
with the 1010 was at knee high v and it was so much fun that's unbelievable our weights sort of closeish
being a surge what would you pre that to in the um spitfire &gt;&gt; I almost would say the ele 80 lift
but it's way faster so from the lifter from the early lift hard to get up I think it's similar to the
&gt;&gt; I think it just has more than the 1030 but I normally You know the Spitfire 10:30. &gt;&gt; That's
why I ride mainly as &gt;&gt; more. I get up earlier and the store speed was insane. If you're going on
a bump on the bed and you're almost stalling, almost standing, I think it should fall down. Front foot
pressure going like it's really fun. Yeah. Like also like I had it today on also on the the 2010 my first
time today. I completely breached the whole foil out of the water. He thought I'm falling. I had a powering
in my hand. Maybe bridge it all. Push it in. Lots of water bubbles. I said, "Oh my god." And it rolled
out. Unbelievable. Then never had something like before you can breach like a tail or something like that
and it pushes in. But it was the whole push it in on the door. &gt;&gt; It's like nobody reminded me talk
about mass here. So we didn't get to talk about M. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Mhm. So, we've got a bunch of our masks
that have been around for a good while. Got the the 19 mil aluminium and then we did the uh the power
carbon mass and that was in uh like a normal modulus carbon and then a high modulus carbon and then we've
got the the ultra high modulus carbon mass that we've been building for quite a while. Um the ultra high
modulus one, well actually these ones are about uh 15 mil um at the narrowest at the first point down
through here. the uh ultra high modulus they're about 13 1.5 mil through there. Obviously when you make
a mask thinner um you're challenging the stiffness of it, but if you can put fancy carbon in there, you
can kind of get it back up again. And like the the ultra high modulus is actually by far the stiffest.
Uh and that's actually been a pretty pretty good reference point for mass for a long while. We've been
developing some dock pocket wings and they got quite big spans. One of them's uh 1750, so it's much up
this stand wing. And uh the construction that we've worked out with this has been really applicable to
make those work as well. As you get those bigger span wings, um you need to go higher aspect because otherwise
the the extra span also just gives you too much drag and it it doesn't work. So the 1750 wing is is 20
aspect ratio and the 1500 fireball is 17 aspect ratio and it's kind of normal for wings like that now.
Seems very high aspect but that's it's not really. Now the 1750 to actually control that regular span
of a wing. The ultra high modulus mast was not really quite enough. So we came up with another mask and
it is 18.1 mil thick right at the at the base through here. And we also the the dad that goes inside the
fuselage, we didn't drop that into 15 mil. We left it at 18.1 mil. And we also didn't do it 28 mil deep.
We did it 35 mil deep. So there's a lot more intersection into the fuselage. So the the fatty mask, it
actually has to be used with the specific um fatty black fuselage. Um because it's thicker, it doesn't
actually need to be built out of the oxy modulus carbon. So, it's not frighteningly expensive, but it
is radically stiff. It is a bit draggier. It's only 18.1 mil thick, so it's not going to be anywhere near
as fast as an Ultra Pro, but for someone like SP, he's actually got the power to push right through that
and ignore that. So, he's got one coming and you I'm sure you'll hear whether it works for him or not.
But when we got that mast, suddenly the 1750 had total control. you were actually able to turn it and
steer it rather than just trying to attempt to balance on top of it. And we've actually built wings bigger
than that now and still still getting really good control. So, um I guess historically when people have
been buying their foil, they've just looked at the length of the mast and that's it. They haven't considered
anything to do with what they're actually what foil they're going to use, what discipline, how much their
weight is, what board, what everything. And and I think it's definitely time to start working out what
you're trying to do with each mast. And for Sven, if he's using the fireball 1350, 1250, 1500 wing, you
know, he really needs the fatty mast and fuselage. If he's toe foiling on a small wing, the ultra pro
is going to be absolutely fantastic for him. So it's moving into the next stage where you know to get
performance you can't just have one mask for your whole range of wings and expect to get performance out
of that. &gt;&gt; Is the interface at the other end of the fuse to the front foil the same on the fatty
fuse? &gt;&gt; No, you have to have a fatty. &gt;&gt; So you can't use &gt;&gt; you have to have a fatty
fuse and fatty mask. Oh, &gt;&gt; you mean the foil &gt;&gt; the head at the front? It's a black. It's
a black. So, just a flat, &gt;&gt; whatever. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And it's got the same saddle at the back,
so it fits the other. That just reminded me of something else like this uh tempo setup. We also have this
bit here in aluminium with a little saddle on it so that you can bolt your existing rear wings on there.
So, if you've got into downwind and you know you've got all of your different rear wings there, you could
actually just get the cheapo aluminum extension tail pipe and put your rear wing on there and just get
the fuse large and front wing until you worked out exactly what wing you want and then this is by far
more efficient. But it's just another thing that you can do. Is your fatty mass same length coming as
&gt;&gt; it's 800 and 900? &gt;&gt; And the 800 the way that we've measured our our mass is like this
is 900. So it's 900 from the surface of the board to the bottom of the fuse lash. Some people measure
it to the to the top of the fuse lash or whatever. There isn't really a standard yet, but that's what
we chose cuz it's just kind of the depth of the whole thing. It's &gt;&gt; the bit you see when it's set
up, isn't it? Well, it's kind of your drawer, I guess, like in a yacht sensor. &gt;&gt; Yeah. What m do
you recommend for tempo set up for me? 720 uh ultra pro uh is the best. That's the that's only uh 12 1/2
mil at the bottom. We are working on a downwind specific mast. So, that will um it's called a kiwi and
there's there's a few lurfing around at the moment, but they're Like any product, we don't actually release
it until we're totally totally happy with it. It's class, but we're still trying to get it. Um, is it
still necessary for lighter riders to have the Fontra Pro mask, do you think, or the Ultra Pro is expensive?
When we Okay, another story with that. When we actually started selling the Ultra Pro mask, it's made
of ultra high modulus carbon and we were the first to actually sell a mask that was ultra high modulus.
We built a few just for ourselves and they worked really well and then we gave them to a few team riders,
mail rode them and you know after 6 months or so none of us would ride anything but that and we're saying
but it was too expensive to sell. So we we kind of didn't push it that hard out. When we finally put it
on the market and sold it we said look this is really stiff. lots of great masks, but we didn't actually
push it that hard out because we didn't want people to feel that they had to buy that or else they couldn't
even foil. We just put it out and pretty good. Buy it, see it, you might like it. And actually, when the
first round of people bought it and saw how good it was, that's when the sales actually took off cuz people
just raved about it, you know, went from there. Um, the stiffer mast you can get, the better it's going
to feel. And if you can keep it thin as well, it's it's going to be better deal for a heavy bl. &gt;&gt;
Yeah. Well, it's difficult, but you've actually got so much power, you can just go for the fatty mast
and just push on through and you won't even notice that drag. &gt;&gt; I'm happy with my ultra profile
either. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And I do one, &gt;&gt; but what size depends on the span of wing that
you're using. Like if you're using a 1350 or 1250 regularly, that's going to be too much for that. But
if you're using a small spad, you know. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Said your main was a 1030. &gt;&gt; Yeah.
But you have you have an 80 or 90. &gt;&gt; No, I just got a 90. What's the equivalent fuse wise length?
So this is based this is based around a standard the short sorry the short which is 700 mil that's what
everyone was using with the firewall. So we just stuck with that. &gt;&gt; How much is your flying agent?
I have no idea. &gt;&gt; Saturday was Black Friday. &gt;&gt; That's all. &gt;&gt; Someone asked pricing
before and I like we sell all over the world and I'd do shop talks all over the world and I I can't remember
all the different prices. I can do any technical question but I don't remember prices if it's on the wall
behind you. Yeah. &gt;&gt; No, not yet. &gt;&gt; The tempo, the tempo front wing, like it's a little more
expensive than the fireball, but not that much. The rear wing, again, it's a little more expensive cuz
there's a bit of fuselage attached to it. The titanium fuselage is not cheap. It's an expensive chunk.
Did it have to be titanium? &gt;&gt; I know. It's very cool. What else would you build it out of? &gt;&gt;
Well, I don't know. That's why I'm asking the question. I assume you experimented with different materials
and &gt;&gt; so what would you I mean stainless steel was is like twice as heavy um carbon you would have
to be fat and that doesn't work so you kind of stuck in a corner with that you steel russes aluminium
um is not strong enough and you can't you can't get as small as that you kind of run out but tell you
But to me, you seeing it first time, it was pretty fun and process. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, the the details
of how it tightens and everything, you know, I'm quite proud of that. It took us a long time to actually
get all that working nicely and was pretty slick the way that is held together and how how rigid and solid
that is. &gt;&gt; What were the bending numbers of the fatty mask compared to the Pro Ultra? So when we
do our tests, we we take the mast and we bolt it to the wall and you have to measure the the same mass
with the same mask. We bolt it to the wall and we hang 25 kg off the end of there. And I actually measure
from the ceiling to the trailing edge and see how much it it bends. That's what I did at home cuz it was
easy. And we've actually replicated on a proper bend machine in China where they manufacture the masks
and the numbers were exactly the same. So, it's been a good, I think, useful test for us. There's some
dispute as it as to whether you should be supporting the mask, you know, between two points and bending
it in the middle head, but, you know, nothing is quite right as far as bending your mask, but bolting
it to the wall and bending it, it gives us a good uh reference and it kind of relates to how the mast
actually feels when you ride it. So, uh, going back to how much the bend is, like if we use like for like
same length mass, it's a 900 m. The, um, 19 mil aluminium bends something like 38 mil. Uh, the power carbon
bends, this is off my head, so it might not be quite right. 38 mil. I think this is about 29 mil for a
for a normal power carbon. Power carbon high modulus about 23 mil. The Ultra Pro is down to about 19.
Um the fatty mast was 11. So it's not just a little bit stiffer. It's a lot. &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's also
got more cord. It's a monster of a mast. I just thought of something else. I don't know how many foil
drivers there are. &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; like pure pure form of it. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm going &gt;&gt; We have
a new four-wheel drive pocket trench board coming which is pretty slick as well. And that was quite a
cool design the way the the whole unit fits underneath a a covered trench. So, it's very clean and nice.
And we do an integrated mask that goes that it was an engineering masterpiece, but I can I can totally
get that you're not that into it. And didn't they shift the mask forward on the Fusion? Was it still fit?
And yeah, &gt;&gt; so we actually when I found out about the Fusion, we actually made the pocket deeper.
&gt;&gt; Okay, sure. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So it actually fits the Fusion. You can get everything in the same
place. &gt;&gt; Very challenging so far. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a tricky trick. &gt;&gt; But that that system
like you just loosen the bolts, slide it back, lift it straight out, and try it all. Swap your battery
over, put it back in again. So it's very slick and easy to use. and AWSI that by far was the most looked
at, tested, raved about product there. We had the tempo there. People barely recognized it. It was all
about the four drive pocket trench board. So, &gt;&gt; and can you have you is there an adapter for the
Duo Tone foil assist for your falls? &gt;&gt; No. No. &gt;&gt; Don't think it's that much compatible compatibility
between an aluminium mass with as they claim adapters for every major fall brand. No. Yeah, we built adapters
for our old aluminium mast to fit pretty much everything. And we built a couple of cool shoes that fit
over the end of the mast. We built a shoe that fits code or a shoe that fits lift. And we we made the
shoe out of titanium because the the threads like on the code one for example, it's only about 6 mil of
thread. So there's very little thread and and building aluminium, you know, when you had to tighten it
up, you're very likely to strip that part of it. The other thing is aluminium cannot touch carbon. So
um having an aluminium shoe fitting onto a carbon mast um and it was not necessarily a good thing. You're
going to get corrosion issues with it. All of our like this surge wing when we build that it has two layers
of fiberglass around here built in as an isolator. That's why this is sprayed slightly black through here
just to disguise that and that creates an isolation barrier between the fuselage so it doesn't touch the
aluminium doesn't touch the carbon. The same on the end of the mast is um fiberglass and it comes down
to about there on the mast and actually creates a barrier so that the the carbon doesn't touch the diffusion
when it goes in there. That's another thing that we've just done recently too and that's a um NFC tag.
And what that is is you point your phone at it. You kind of have to take the cover off your phone to make
it work. and you open your phone and then you poke it at that Safari the tag and opens up a little thing
there and it tells you the serial number. It's got uh it takes you to the website as well. So it tells
you all about the wing and and you can go and look at the website. It's also got a website where you can
go and register your wing. It's got the skew number, the EIN number, the security code to to show you
that it's a genuine product. It's not a cotton. Um, and you can go online and you can register that. And
the idea is that um &gt;&gt; good innovation. Sorry, it's a good innovation. &gt;&gt; Well, we're just
trying to stop, we've had quite a bit of copying of Chinese companies building fake axis stuff. So, we
stuck that in there to do that. And the idea is to have that in all sorts of products going forward. Yeah,
that's where we that one it's on the case just on the fiberglass barrier. I noticed I put a shock shield
on my Frank board and it corroded right away, but I haven't seen that in other for Does the Frank board
have a really thin um sand back on the outside of No Slass? It's just carbon. It's just color. &gt;&gt;
Yeah, there's carbon, but there's a layer of bog, white bog, and there's a layer of red. &gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And it's uh it's pretty much carbon. What's the shark shield made from? &gt;&gt; I think they
they sort of have these stainless steel. Um but I don't know what grade of stainless steel. &gt;&gt; Stainless
steel should be fine. It's if it's if it's corroding, &gt;&gt; it'll be aluminium. I'm sure &gt;&gt; it's
going rust that. &gt;&gt; Oh, really? &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's interesting. I've seen it on one one of the
&gt;&gt; So that if it's doing that that's just a bad quality stainless steel. So it' be 304. That's interesting
because I didn't it didn't happen on my other &gt;&gt; We've got some new Frank boards coming too like
those are the Maros. Those have been really really popular. There was a recent poll and bunch of people
voted as a downwind board came out at 32%. I think the Senova came in second place. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that
was funny. I put that poll up. &gt;&gt; Oh, you started that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. And I was asking for
my mate who's about size to &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And everyone was just &gt;&gt; I think if you saw
how many there were out there last month too. I mean &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, it's all around the world. It's
really taken off. &gt;&gt; Um that's the the new fuselage. And there's some extra things we've done in
there to help with corrosion. So in here, this is a a zinc anode. And if you've got an outboard motor
or an inboard motor, you'll know that you have a a zinc anodess all over your your motor and once a year
or so you you replace them. So that zinc anode will actually deteriorate over time from the salt water
and that deteriorates to protect the rest of the fuselage from corroding. This is marine grade alum aluminium
so it's it's pretty good. The other thing that we've changed in the recent fuselage is these two front
holes. They're not very deep. So, we used to get the odd person stripping those two front holes. So, we've
made a a a titanium insert in there. So, it's actually a little insert. It's not a hel coil, and it just
winds in, and it has two pins either side of it. So, you wind it in, and then you whack the pins, and
the pins cut through the thread and make it so there's no way you can take it back out again. So, the
front two holes are titanium, and it's got the zinc in it. That's the the newer fuselage. We've modified
this quite a few times over the years and you can see the back of it is actually pretty thin and it's
quite high this way. When you're when you're pumping this, this is going up and down through the water
and this is quite knifelike to to cut through the water. Whereas um probably the worst things you could
have is a a square section or or even a round section. There's a lot of drag off a round piece going up
and down. If you just get a round stick and wave it through the water compared to something like that,
it just cuts through the water a lot better. Um, it also makes this as thin as you can possibly get it.
So, that saves weight, but we've added the thickness through here where they they sometimes used to crack
through here. So, that's a modified black fuselage. And I like to think it's actually a pretty sleek looking
thing compared to what it's been in the past. Aluminium is actually pretty good. It's cost effective and
when you have the zinc and the titanium bits in it um and build it properly, it lasts pretty well. It's
reasonably inexpensive. It's it works well. &gt;&gt; All the screws inserts are titanium. &gt;&gt; No,
just the front two. These ones here never really strip out. We could have done those in titanium as well,
but just after the price and we never really had problems with those. The rear ones, they're just straight
into aluminium. And we didn't really strip those. And we can't actually because it's so thin through here,
we can't actually fit them in there. So still use tough gel. &gt;&gt; Always a good idea. Use a big Tiff
gel. &gt;&gt; Who doesn't like sticking it away with their hands? Doesn't &gt;&gt; I use a graphite, but
I've been using oil stuff for &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Probably eight or nine years since I started wind
foiling. And &gt;&gt; is it still sticky and horrible? No. Well, the thing is you get sand, you can just
wipe it out. Stick. It's not sticky, but it's I've never had a failure. I got a question for Luke. When
you're not trying to go fast downwind in a straight line, &gt;&gt; what would you what front wing would
you choose between the RV2s, the Surge or the uh Spitfires? &gt;&gt; Surge every time. &gt;&gt; Every
day of the week. &gt;&gt; Every day of the week. Um, yeah, speedwise, like I think when you match when
you actually match the right size for your weight and compared to what you've been riding, like I've heard
a lot of people, you know, they'll compare the 890 to riding the 819 V2 and be like, "Oh, it's so much
slower." It's it's going to be. Whereas when you ride the 830 or the new sizes that are coming out that
more closely match the actual profile and size of that wing um speed wise they are very impressive. They
do um run quite fast if you want them to. Um but then you also get that low swallow speed to rely on as
well if you run into you know run up the back of a swell or run yourself into a hole. Um, so every day
of the week I'm going to choose a surge for um, anything turn related, anything turn related, anything
speed, I'm jumping on that. And then yeah, they're pretty much my two two wings now. Um, so yeah, those
are very impressive. I think the 1010 and we're working on some larger ones as well. I think those will
actually end up being really, really useful for people that are learning to downwind just because they're
so easy to ride, so predictable in their lift, really nice turny surfing wings, and they just stay up
and glide well too. &gt;&gt; Adrian, I brought a question regarding tempo. Uh, compared to, um, fireball
and normal, you know, stingy tail, what are the angle of the front and tail? &gt;&gt; Same. &gt;&gt; Simos.
&gt;&gt; Yep. without shims with fire. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So if you want more lift, you you just go to a bigger
rear, which is a little bit like shimming, positive shimming, &gt;&gt; but you just do it. &gt;&gt; We
tried to keep this as slick as possible. So if you're going to have this shimable at the base here, it
would involve screws and drag mess, whatever. So &gt;&gt; just trying to keep this totally clean. And
it's it's worked really well. Rear lay just neutral layout at positive. So the front wing is 1°ree up
uh and the back wing is 1 and 1/2° down. Little difference depend front two and a half. But that's that's
nominal because it's it's appropriate to your camber. So if you got a higher camber um like for your for
your rear for example, if you had a higher camber rear, you can ride it a lot flatter because it's creating
the force through camber rather than via angle of attack. So it's it's balanced and it works nicely as
it is. Um, it's kind of all you need to know. It doesn't necessarily relate to any other for setup and
what angles they may or may not be riding at. This is balanced and it works pretty good. Everyone that
hops on this first run like had a guy in Maui. He was riding another brand and we put him on actually
it was a 920 25 rear. He had his first ever run on it and on his first run he did a personal best straight
away. He didn't he just called the wrong wind. It's not like he had to have 10 runners to sort of learn
how to ride it. They're very comfortable and easy and intuitive to use.