Hi, this is Christian for Wing Server. Axis recently released a new Surge front wing and after my first
session on the Sur A90, I knew right away this was going to be one of my favorite foils. Axis designed
it to sit right between the Spitfire and the RV2. And honestly, you can feel that immediately on the water.
It fits perfectly in that gap while still bringing some unique characteristics of its own. Even though
it's not my favorite foil, I'll definitely continue using the others as well since conditions are never
the same. In this comparison video, I'll explain why I think the Surge really excels and why I choose
the other foils instead. Where the Axis Surge shines, it's a great ray foil with a lively feel, but on
fast waking brace where snappy turns are limited, I'd go with the RV V2. The foil is very forgiving and
stable when you want it to be. You can continuously adjust your line and foil angle without stalling even
in messy water. Uh because it's so forgiving, the foil really shines when you push it in hard turns using
the energy from wave bumps and swell. You can throw and kick this foil around and truly get the most out
of it. The foil isn't as fast as the RV2, but it offers a similar glide. Once upon foil, uh, it can ride
at lower speeds in the same size. Slower and faster are relatively here. We're talking about small differences
in average top speed. The pop for jumping feels excellent for the Serge A90. Spitfire, the power buildup
when dropping onto a steep wave can sometimes feel like too much. I experienced a similar sensation with
the search. Uh, with the Spitfire, choosing the correct size solved this issue. I do still need to test
the larger shirt front wings, but I expect it will be similar. I had to position the search slightly f
far f far further forward in the board tracks compared to the art and spitfire. When to choose the art
version two? The Art can keep up with fast moving waves and still allows for fairly tight turns compared
to the Spitfire and Search. However, it feels a bit less snappy. It really excels at riding swell, but
it also feels good when staying in the pocket of fast breaking waves. Uh, for me, the 879 size is the
standout. On smaller days though, I'd switch back to the R939 or even the 999 as they glide better at
lower speeds. If you're an active rider, um the S i890 also works in these conditions, but you need to
stay engaged and throw the foil around to keep it alive because you can generate a lot of speed with the
art, especially the 879. It's a great foil for jumping. This A9 999, this 999 feels a bit slower compared
to the V1. And with the V2s, you generally want to size down by one to go as fast. When to choose the
Spitfire? The larger Spitfire front wings, 900 and larger, have always impressed me with how easy they
are to get up foil. Uh they do feel slower, but that also makes them excellent for riders who are new
to foiling. On a wave, the Spitfire has great turning ability. Um, however, because it has less glide
than the Surge, I would now choose the Surge over the Spitfire. The Surge A90 feels more forgiving than
a Spitfire 780. Um, I would still choose the Spitfire though in overhead powerful waves where you don't
need as much glide. In these conditions, choosing the right size is critical. go too big and you'll just
be spit out. For me, the Spitfire 780 is perfect. When the waves are fast and I can't keep up with them
on a Spitfire, I choose an Art V2 where the Fireball fires. This actually has never been my favorite foil
in the smaller sizes, mainly because my local conditions don't really suit them. However, the larger Fireball
1250 has been an amazing favorite light wind downwind powering foil for me. Where I ride, there's usually
a lot of water movement when the wind is on. In those conditions, uh very high aspect foils don't seem
to lock in as well when going upwind while wing foiling. They then tend to small more quickly. The Fireball
really excels in glide and gets up on foil very at very low speeds. It's ideal for downwinders or calm
water sessions where you can bump right endlessly. Uh this film drinking does turn, but it prefers smooth
drawn out turns rather than snappy ones. With a smaller size like the 880, I had to move the mast further
back in the board tracks. uh where the Firebolt 1250 sits in a similar position to that of the RV2 and
the Spitfire. Then there is something we like to call the foil journey. Most of the foils mentioned here
aren't where you actually learn to foil on. Uh for some riders, uh Spitfire 1180 1180 could be a good
starting point depending on your weight and where you're learning. Uh but for most uh you start with a
SES or one of the large BC wings. Um these are great options to learn to foil with with these work really
well from intermediate all the way to expert level. That said, everyone's foil journey is different. We're
all different riders. We foil on different conditions. So it's impossible to lay out one single pot that
works for everyone. That's also why as a beginner the axis range can look huge and pretty confusing. With
this breakdown, I hope I can help guide you in the right direction on your forward journey with these
axis front wings. If you need advice, just drop a comment, send a message, or give me a call. I'm always
happy to help because it's not always easy to figure out this stuff. Thank you for watching.