Today we're reviewing the Axis 1400 PNG P2. Yes, there is a disconnection between the audio and the video
because I lost the audio files, unfortunately. So, this is going to be a voiceover review instead of an
onboarding review, but I'm still going to try and explain the same feelings I felt when getting on this
foil for the very first time. I never used this foil before. This was really the the first time of me
uh getting on this foil. And the first feeling is uh stability very very stable especially because I tried
it back to back after it's younger brother the 1300 and this review is going to be also a comparison with
the 1300 as you can see is uh immediately slower than the 1300 but you can immediately feel that it's
more efficient efficient sorry uh you have to use less energy at each pump to make it go forward. And
I quite like, like I said in the previous video where I reviewed the 1300, the direction that Axis is
taking, especially for these beginner force. They're going uh they're working with a cumber rather than
just going thicker and thicker and slower and slower. And that's very good because you you don't denaturalize,
if I can say that, the pumping movement and you still keep a very pleasant foil. You can see here that
my aluminum 16 mm mast. I mean, the aluminum mast I tried it with is a a little bendy uh in the turns
for this kind of foil with such a big uh span. And yeah, definitely doesn't turn uh that well as you can
expect from a foil of this size and for this program is mainly for beginners, intermediates who want to
pump for longer distances. And it does a really good job at that. But of course, forget about uh forget
about um carving sharp and everything. However, because the profile is so thin and well um well designed,
you can still wake probably with it. I'm pretty sure I wasn't able as as you could see to to do that.
But um yeah, I'm I'm pretty sure you can because again, the speed range is still quite good. As you can
see now, I'm doing like a test pit. And as you can see, pretty good um speed range. Nice glide. And you
probably saw the board slightly pointing down uh when gliding. That's probably something again with the
profile. They did some magic there because um as you can see like even the the angle of attack of the
foil is is very very small and pretty pretty flat pretty even and when you glide it's kind of downhill
uh and mind you my body is completely flat. Anyways um as you can see it is pretty pretty efficient as
well. I wasn't even riding that high. I was running in circle. I was talking and still I was able to um
to go on without any any problem. So if you are a beginner and maybe even intermediate and you're looking
for something a bit more uh long distance, that's that's probably the way to go. However, I probably wouldn't
really uh start directly directly with this one unless you are a heavier weight. The reason why I wouldn't
really necessarily start with the 1400 unless again you're super heavy is because with big foils as you
know if you roll it at the start you pretty much lose it and you can forget about it because you won't
be able to to recover it to get to get it back right. However, uh probably because there there is no much
volume and surface at the tips, they kind of, you know, did their best with this problem that you have
that you're facing when when dealing with uh big front links. And yeah, to be honest, I believe that this
is really the limit. I don't really necessarily like huge foils until at least for now because like I
said, as you can see, you can pretty much pump this foil even without being super fit for easily five
um 7 minutes. Um again, if you're not maybe talking and you're not keeping your arm like this to to to
speak to the microphone and then lose the files. But um yeah, like to be honest, I believe that this is
a very good option. And I don't really uh see how you you could even you could ever need a bigger foil
unless you really want to have free foil, but then you can probably get a beta foil, right? But anyways,
I believe this is really the the sweet spot for for a foil um between uh versatility and long distance.
Um, I tried it with a crazy short advanced fuselage and a progression uh stab and it was fine but probably
not the easiest because it's already quite sensitive because of the short advanced fuse. So if you are
starting with it from scratch then I recommend you use a um an ultra short advanced fuse fuse sorry or
even a um short advanced fuse just to make it a little a little easier a little more stable and as you
progress you can um you can maybe downsize the the stab. Now, speaking about stabs, because you know the
market and especially Ivonne, right? He's pretty much the um the the person that you you think about if
you're if you're thinking axis pumping and he's going shorter and shorter with the fuselage and smaller
and smaller with the stab. Um I personally don't really find myself going too much in that direction.
I prefer to have a more natural feeling, a less hectic pumping, uh, and still the possibility to carve
sharp. Uh, because at the end of the day, to be honest, at least personally, maybe it's just again, um,
maybe I'm not pumping as much as him or I don't know. But to be honest, I I prefer a more normal sized
fuselage and stuff, at least for now. But if I'm going to change my mind, I'm going to keep you updated.
That is why I wouldn't really go shorter than the crazy short when it comes to fuselage. And even the
stab, yes, you can maybe get one of the bigger skinnies, but I wouldn't get probably the super knife type
of katana like like pom pom stab. No, like keep it easy. And and like how much do you really gain in terms
of drag? It's marginal because the front wing does the heavy lifting. The front wing is the the big part.
So even if the stab is like 5% more efficient, I don't care if I can get more stability and have a less
hectic pumping. I prefer that rather than having a 5% more efficiency. And again, maybe if you're mainly
like purely flatwater pumping, then maybe that doesn't doesn't really apply that much. But if you are
waveing, if you are if you are wave riding, if you are downwinding, then I don't think that's the shorter
fuse in on the planet and the smaller stab on the planet are really the way to go. But again, maybe it's
just a personal preference. All right, so who is this axis for? Is it any good? And how does it compared
to the 1300? Like I said, if you're a beginner and you're maybe over 90 kilos, I would say really, then
this is probably the option for you over the 1300. If you're light, I would say forget about starting
on this oil. If you are maybe on this Axis PNG 1150, so the old series, and you are looking for some more
glide, some more pumping, then you either get into these either into the Art Pro 1400 141, sorry. Now,
in terms of how it compares to 1401, I couldn't try them back to back, so I'm not going to really touch
on that too much because that will be like not really fair, but um I felt that they're pretty similar.
Of course, um the 1401 is less stable because it's higher aspect and lower surface surface area and probably
even thinner. It's got more high-end, but I believe that the 1400 PNG, it's a very valuable option because
you still get some of the benefits of the 1401 like long distance and glide, but you still keep it quite
um quite easy, quite simple to to learn. So, you can learn it definitely. Um I would just recommend you
get a longer fuse and a smaller stab if you're getting started with this foil. And yeah, so that is pretty
much it. And in terms of how it compares to the 1300, you lose definitely a bit of carving, but you gain
quite quite some uh long distance. And the 1300 doesn't carve that well anyways. So, you might as well
just get this one because anyways, you don't like the like like the 1300, let's say it's a you you're
always going to see the scores at the end of the video, but the 1300 uh I'm not sure how much I I scored
it, but I would say it's really like a six or six and a half, seven when it comes to turning. Uh six and
a half, I believe. Um and this one, you know, is one or two points below. not that big of a difference.
But the the long distance though, it's I would say a fair bit better than the 1300. So again, you decide
what to go for. If you are maybe more into uh waves or uh wakeing, then probably the 1300 the 1300 is
a bit better. or if you're lighter like I said. Okay, because again because the the the feeling of these
foils is being quite hard if you go really big in surface and you're in your light is going to be quite
uh difficult to to pump these f. So yeah, I would say really go on your weight what you're going to use
this f for and if you prefer long distance over carving and winding. Okay, that's that. Drop in the comment
any foil that you would like me to review. And big massive thank you to Peter first of all to let me try
this foil uh his foils and to um Emmanuel from way out soon lake. If you are from Italy, if you are if
you end up if you like if you happen in Italy in central Italy close to Rome, there is this lovely lake.
is like a natural park is a beautiful gorgeous place and they are wing foiling, palm foiling, uh surf
skating. They're doing all sorts of things and I I hosted my camp there with him and it was amazing really
really nice person and lovely people. So and amazing food. So if you're looking for a wing foil palm foil
food vacation holiday, look no further than Lake Brano Trevano Romano, close to Rome, Italy. All right,
I'll see you next time.