So, one of my favorite places on earth in the northwest of WA, we have this run that works in the mornings.
So, you've got to hit it and score it on like a howling offshore. It's like a bay run on absolute steroids.
It's actually a golf run. It is so much fun coming up here doing this one. So, right now I'm running the
um the new tempo from Axis, which is I'm on the 960, which is 575 cm. And that sounds tiny because I'm
no pro, but has so much good bottom end built into it. The paddle up's actually pretty easy compared to
other wings of that size. I think 16 aspect once it gets going, the glide on this thing is out of control.
Connects the dots with all of that glide. And now up up and overing is like you just do it all the time.
Like this is just you're just sitting on like 30ks an hour average without even trying. This is just absolutely
wild. Um, there was a bit of misconception that these might just be for pros, you know, race only wings.
And don't get me wrong, if you're a racer looking to hunt PBS, this is what you want. But also if you're
like weekend warrior downwind that just likes to go fast and keep an eye on your own performances and
continually looking to improve. It's nothing to be intimidated by. It's like anyone can get on these.
If you've ridden the fireballs, it's intuitive. It's very similar. Most people sort of say it's just like
the fireball but quicker or less drag or slipperier version of the fireballs which is pretty good assessment.
But right now, wow, some of these bumps, I'm just up and overing with like a couple of little bumps in
between. And it just allows you so much time to pick your line across the next section. Like, I can't
get off these things. I don't even race, but I always like to like do like, you know, beat my own times
and PBS. And soon as I started riding the tempos is when I started like throwing all my old PBs out the
window, this thing's just smashing them. It's gives you so much time to conserve energy and find like
your flow state. It's pretty insane. So, the glide is one thing that for me actually makes it easy to
use because it'll flow through the dead zones, which is exactly what I'm doing now. Just linking up, joining
the dots, no pumping. Still absolutely flying along. Cutting pretty hard on this run. So, we need to cut
a lot on this just because it's a little onshore and the coast wraps back in at the end. So, I'm basically
cutting across the right hand as as much as I can here to try and gain some ground to set up for a good
finish. Otherwise, if we don't cut enough, there's a risk of falling short and having to endure an extremely
inconvenient swimming or paddling through the shallow flats. It's like a shark nursery in their sanctuary
zone. There's like hundreds of baby sharks swimming around in this water that's not clear. Uh, and it's
like need waste deep reef extremely annoying, time consuming paddling. So, number one goal is to avoid
that. Number two goal is to have fun. And so far with the tempo, it looks like I'm able to achieve both.
Got some beautiful bumps lining up now. I'm out in the middle of the Gulf. It's about 8:00 in the morning.
I'm just going to stand here and save some energy. Enjoy the ride a little. Just hunt this one real quick.
Pretty easy up and over. six pumps you choose. But do the up and overs with the tempo pretty easily or
you can just fade back. I do a little fade back now. I'll go right. Grab some ground. Just glide along
until you find the next bump. There's one right here. So, probably gained about 50 m on my track there.
There we go. Swoop into this righthander and just I'm going to gain a heap of ground here. Like wind in
my face now. Going dead across the wind. Like no worries. This thing just helps cutting like you wouldn't
believe. And hopefully that allows me to enjoy the back half of the run more. But the bumps are getting
pretty big out here now. It's good. Starting to sort of get the finish inside up ahead so I can plan which
way I want to come in. Big bump here. Oh my goodness. That's an in involuntary up and over where you just
get sent and you're just a passenger. And another one right in front here. I'm just going to glide over
that. No pumping. And down the next I'll cut right. There's a big bump juicing up over here. Oh my god.
Making it so easy this thing. Trying not to go left, but change of scenery is always good. Cut out the
back a bit to see what happens off the back here. Look at this. All right. So, I have managed to put together
a good run where I have an ideal line to the finish. So, if anything goes pear-shaped, it's on me. I've
set myself up for a good finish all the way to the sand. The pump in can be a challenge cuz you sort of
start to go across the wind on the way in. And I'm on a tin tiny wing, but if it's good enough for the
pros, it's good enough for me, right? That's what I said before. So, have to hold myself to my word here.
So, very similar to like finishing at Canaha on Maui where you're looking for like a really narrow gap
in the reef and then a little lagoon pump at the end. Not quite as long as the Canaha Lagoon Pump, thankfully,
but still pretty tricky for an old boy. So, I'm going to try and preserve some legs for the next few minutes.
Save something for that end. The bumps go really weird at this point, too. So, I'm going to have to be
right on my game. Still lucky enough to have some really good energy at this point. So, I use the ocean
as much as I can before I tap into the legs. And I'm really going to have to rely on the bottom end that
I was bragging about before to pump my way to the shore. Turtles mating up ahead. So, choose your path
wisely. All right. Now I need to be so strategic about staying with the bumps. It's really easy to go
uphill here from past experience. So I can see the reef approaching and I know that I'm in for a pump
for sure. So finding a gap and riding high cuz it's freaking shallow. This part's critical. I've got a
nice little runner here to save some legs. Okay, it's all about to go down one way or another. All right,
first shallow bit. I can see the finish. And I've got a sweet little bump still. Kind of halfway through
the reef. There's one more shallow bit here. Here we go. Just going to try and sit in this trough. Get
ready to put the hammer down. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Got a little run. That's going to help.
Well, I've cleared the reef at least. That's huge. I've pretty much done the hard work. Just going for
the icing on the cake, which is to beach this thing. Let's go. Here we go. Big legs. Done it. Frothing.
There it is. Oh yeah. It's been a year since I've done that that particular run. Woo. That was so sick.
Record time, too.