Hey, uh Adrian from Axis here. I was going to talk you through some of our new products. Um I'm going
to start with the uh the Tempo with the titanium fuselage. This is a new uh project that we started about
a year ago when we released the fireball. So the fireball was our downwind uh race setup and we're basically
starting to work on the next thing on from that. Um, we were going a lot more high aspect. We'd already
experimented with the with the black fuselage on on higher aspect, and we knew that's where we wanted
to go. But to create that, we had to come up with a new, sleeker, uh, fuselage system. So, this system
here, this is all titanium. Uh, and this top plate here is stainless steel, and that lifts up. And this
is stainless steel. So, the grub screws go in from the bottom, and that actually expands this and creates
the joint on the front. So that front wing has got two holes in it. So that just goes into there and then
the grub screws go in &gt;&gt; and the rear wing goes on. That goes on. This just tightens up. And you
you basically just do it fingertight to start with. Then to lock that on there, you just put that key
in and do a quarter of a turn. That expands from the inside. And when that's bolted together together,
you know, it's totally rigid on there. Uh these wings, uh 16 aspect ratio, very high aspect, very low
drag, very very thin. There's no room for a core on the wing. and to get this wing stiff enough like this
is um ultra high modulus carbon very very thin but very very rigid same for the rear wing and with something
this high aspect and this thin you can't get away with a fat fuselage so we had to basically build that
new fuselage system to work with that uh the fuselage system itself you can see those grub screws that
I I've tightened up when they tighten up they hit this plate they expand that plate from the inside which
actually locks it on there. Uh on top of that, we've also built um an aluminum fuselage that fits on the
back so that you can use some of our old existing wings. So that covers all of that. Uh this this here,
the two screws are actually underneath this plate. So you have to undo this cover plate, do your two screws
up, and then that bolts back down to cover that up. Make that smooth. this putting that onto the end of
your mast. Most people leave that on there. So, we've got a little cover that fits on. So, when that's
on the end of the mast, if it falls over, it protects the titanium from dam damaging the titanium or your
car. Um, that's kind of covered that. This this was designed primarily for downwind racing and in the
uh Hawaii racing this year um most of the races the in the top 20 there was nine riders on this setup.
So, absolutely it performs for downwind racing. Um, but aside from that, it's actually a very easy riding
setup that's fast, comfortable, surfy, and really fun to ride. This is our new um pocket trench uh four
drive board and integrated mast. The integrated mast is going to come in um ultra high modulus and uh
high modulus. The the high modulus is uh really well suited for lighter riders with smaller span wings.
The ultra high modulus is better for bigger span wings and uh it it's obviously stiffer but it is more
expensive. So we've got two options in that. Um this new four drive board when the batteries and everything's
in here. This is absolutely smooth. So this is at the same level. Very little drag. Um the box we're only
got 2 m clearance either side. So there's not much volume taken out of the board. You run your battery
down. Time to to take the battery out. You you just back these screws off a little bit. Slide that back.
Lift it out. Dry the unit. Um, put the new battery back in there again. Stick it back in. Slide it together.
Nip the bolts up. So, it's very, very quick to change over. Very little drag. The board itself is all
of this area here is fiberglass. The tracks themselves are fiberglass. So, there's no signal blocking
from that. And on the deck of the board, this area here is all glass. This is all glass. So you get a
perfect transmission signal through the board. The board's made uh in a mold uh and CNC cut core uh and
pre prag carbon. So it's been cured at 130° C. Um close cell foam, so if you get a ding, it's not going
to suck water. Uh you don't need a vent and it's happy to sit in the sun even though it's black carbon.
So very very light, very strong. Nice setup.