Hey, Freddy from Max Track and Axis UK here. Um, just going to have a quick look through the Surge Foil
from Axis. Um, I've done a few bits and bobs with Adrian and Sheny and a couple of shops in the UK, but
there's nothing quite like putting your own thoughts down on video and maybe stretching to it a little
bit more than I have done on those videos. Um, the Surge is a new performance surf foil from Axis. We've
had it since the tail end of 2025, I think. Now, uh, we're still struggling with stock. It's been quite
a nice seller for us, which is obviously good, but it means that I haven't used too many of them. Um,
namely the the bigger sizes essentially, the 1010 and the 950. We haven't managed to keep in stock yet,
so I haven't had a go on those. Um, who's it for? What is it? It's a surf foil, but don't let that put
you off. The way I've been trying to reframe my brain or or explain to people is 90% of what we're doing
here in the UK, this foil is perfect for uh and that's why we were banging on about wanting to get hold
of it for a long, long time. The first time I jumped on this in America, I came off the water, I ran straight
up to Adrian to give him back his safoil and I said, "Stop building everything else you're building and
just send me those." This is all we need for our UK conditions. Um, the bulk of folk in the UK and let's
say Northern Europe as well, we're wing foiling. We're playing around on beach brakes. We're parking up
riding in front of our car coming back to our car. We're not doing massive sends. It's getting there a
little bit with the power winging, but realistically, we are riding beach brakes. We might be smashing
around our local lakes and reservoirs, doing some few jumps and bits and bobs and doing some nice turns
and drives and tacks, but that's what we're doing and that's where the surge comes into its own. Um, so
if you're on the Axis system and you may be on something like the Spitfires or the RV2s or you're on the
BSC's and the HPS and you're looking potentially at what's next, this is this is number one. um it ticks
too many boxes not to be useful. We're on to this like third evolution of surf foils and that's not just
Axis wide. That's that's every brand under the sun essentially. They the designers all seem to be getting
to grips with combining a lot of elements that we've had quite a few different foils for and been able
to put them in to one. So the surge turns better than we've had before. And I appreciate me saying this
can come across very disingenuous, but again, it's the designer's fault, not mine. It turns better, it
glides better, it pumps better, and it's got a bigger range of conditions that it can ride in. It lifts
earlier than foils have them at this size, especially, and yet it's still got the high end that we would
want from something like a surfo. So, difficult to hear, but unfortunately, it's correct. And as much
as Adrian doesn't like me saying it, it is killing a couple of the foils for me in my own um use area.
The Spitfire and the RV2 are the main ones now. And I feel like although they're still in the range, it
is slimming down a touch. So now the Axis range revolves mainly around Surge, Fireball, Pump and Glide,
and what am I forgetting? Christ, that's not good, is it? Tempo. There you go. So, the new tempos, um,
we've not done much of those in the UK here, and I and I knew we wouldn't because we don't do what the
tempo really is designed for. There's not a level at which that foil is is useful yet. That's not to say
we won't get there, but that's where this one comes into its own because it ticks more boxes for us. Um,
the first thing you'll notice then, jumping on Surge, and by all means, if you need to demo anything,
please give us a shout or any of the local retailers because they are all geared up now. The Surge is
the best turning axis foil that we've ever had. What we've had in the past, the Spitfire, the RTV V2 and
things, they're really good at yoring. They turn quite loosely on the Y axis, which is great. It's fine,
and you can y it and lean, but you don't get the nice smooth roll that we want from the likes of a surfboard,
for instance. And that's where the surge comes in. So, that is the the first thing you'll notice. And
it's a nice progressive roll as well. Uh, I've ridden a few foils in the past from different brands. Um,
there was quite a looseness in the roll and they were great and it was definitely a certain feeling that
you you'd get used to. But this is not that. A lot more progressive. So those it felt like they would
roll and you'd have to catch it before it went too far. These they will progressively go as far as you
want it to go and depending on how much effort you put into it, it will do what you want it to do. So
the roll is a really big one for us. Uh, pumpability is probably numero two. Um, I've never been able
to link waves. I know this is all going to come down to personal um not preferences, but my findings essentially,
but I'm a pretty poor prone foiler and pumping has never been something I've been able to master at all.
Uh, especially on smaller foils. The surge has allowed me to link waves quite comfortably, a lot more
confidently than I have done previously. Um, so the pump on the Surge is far easier. And what's really
nice is you don't have to go up to the bigger sizes to get the benefit of that. All of them pump really
well, obviously for their size, but that 890 that I've spent most of my time on, I can pump that well
two or three two or three waves quite comfortably until I run out of steam. um you then get quite a bit
of drive and I use the word drive mainly in this in the pump and what I mean by that is it feels like
you don't just pump to stay high on the mast you get forward momentum when you when you pump forwards
and that's something that's come from the evolution of the likes of the downwind higher aspect foils so
we never got it out of any of the foils until downwind racing became more of a thing. And as much as I
might not be part of that world, I'm aware and I think a lot of us were aware when we start looking at
what the guys were doing during the big Hawaiian races and Australian races, they weren't trying to ride
the wave they were on because they're in a race. They're trying to get A to B as quickly as it possibly
can. So, they were going from the wave they were on to the wave in front. And when they were on the wave
in front, they were trying to get to the wave in front of that. And what it got the brands all doing or
designers all doing was trying to make something that would accelerate forward. So you got a huge amount
of drive in the fireball for instance to get onto the wave in front of you. What they've now managed to
do, what Adrian's managed to do is put the that essence into a surf foil. So it's still not the quickest
foil in the world and it will stay in the pocket. It's not like it's going to accelerate too much forwards.
Should you want to pump off the back and go left or go right or go left or go back or forwards, it feels
like you can really choose where this foil goes because you're confident in the pumping and it drives
forwards a lot a lot quicker. So, it takes less effort to get to where you want to go. There's also still
a really nice amount of glide and I think that's getting really important for the powering element that
we're looking at nowadays. So, previously the likes of the Spitfire, for instance, to get the turning
that we got out of the Spitfire, which was a great foil for its time, it meant you lacked a little bit
of glide because the aspect ratios were a little lower. Um, and I know it's not just down to that, but
that's what my brain says. Um, so you you struggled with the glide and you struggled with with the time
that you had before you needed to figure out what was going on. I you needed to get onto another wave.
The Surge has a lot more glide there. Nine and a half aspect ratio. So, it sits sort of it's sort of in
between the Spitfire and the RV2. RV2 has always been around 10 aspect ratio. Spitfire is seven or eight
depending on which size you go for. Uh, and relatively the surge is quite high in comparison to some of
its competitor products um at 9 and a half, but it doesn't slow you down in the turn and it only helps
you in the in the pumping and the glide. So, big win there. I've only really used the 890 and the 830.
As mentioned, the bigger sizes especially haven't haven't managed to keep keep in stock yet. Um, I'm 80
kilos on a good day. I'm a little bit more, but I like to say 80. Um, and I've been using the 890 for
power winging and light wind winging and the 830 for anything that's a little bit more powered. I've also
put a 740 on demo simply because I've done some toe foiling sessions where the 830 has just been a little
bit too overpowered. That's where I like the idea of a 740. So for me, my winging wing, winging front
wing is going to be the 830. If I'm powered, if I'm under power with a wing or if I'm in some beefy conditions
for anything, the 830 is going to be able to handle them a little bit more. If I'm power winging and trying
to link bumps and which I'm not that good at, so I need the the all the help I can get. Generally, the
890 is a really nice little extra little bit of glide between the two of them. It does mean it can't handle
quite the same amount of speed, but I get the benefit of being able to link waves. So, that is those are
my two go-tos, and I don't think that's going to change anytime soon. I then keep getting some really
good reviews on the 1010 and the 950 from the likes of the subfoilers. So, anyone that's riding sort of
shorter, sharper bumps, um some of the guys in Scotland for instance on the locks where the fetch is not
huge, um anything that stands up a little bit more, the Surge is really, really nice. Uh when you look
at the range, just to give you a brief when might you not use it, the Fireball is still much much better
at glide and all out glide and speed. So, if you're smashing around your local lake as fast as you possibly
can, the fireball is going to be the one to go for. The Surge isn't the fastest foil in the world. It
doesn't need to be. It doesn't want to be. Um, if that's where you're going to be spending most of your
time, maybe the Fireball. And likewise, if you're out in some open water bumps and you're riding weaker
swell but or faster moving swell, which is essentially or or tends to be a lot shallower swell, you need
something that can keep up with the higher speeds of those those waves. And that's where the fireball
comes in as well. So those are the two sort of main staples um in in the Axis range nowadays. And then
I pair it with the latest range. Oh, where is it? Here. Latest range of rear wings from Axis, the surf
skinny. Relatively simple progression onwards from what we've had already. And that's what I really quite
like looking at in the Axis range. Obviously, we work with Adrian not closely, but we get to see what
he's what he's thinking in his mind and you see the progression forwards in all of the ranges of the foils
that we've got and especially the rear wings as well. So, the progressives have been out for a long time
now and we use those for non everything depending on level and and discipline. And then we saw the skinnies
sort of come into their own as the downwinding stuff again. So, as the fireballs came out, we needed something
that could keep up on the rear with the front wing. So, the front wings wanting to go flat out all the
time. The progressives are generally a little bit slower because they're a bit of a thicker cord and and
and the the thickness is a lot more anyway. Um, so the skinnies come out really really nice bits of kit.
A lot faster moving, but they don't turn quite the same as the likes of the progressives. So if you want
all your all out turning and surfing, the progressives if you wanted your downwind glide, your skinnies,
and that left a little bit of a hole in the middle where the surf skinnies come in, and you can see where
they get their name from. Um, if you're doing anything again wavebased, the Surfkinny is a really good
contender. Well worth having a look at. 280, 300, 320. I'd say that 280 is going to pair really nicely
with some really big foils where you don't need the stability out of the tail. The 300 is going to be
your real sweet spot in the middle, your Goldilock sort of rear wing. And your 320 is going to be really
suitable for the likes of the smaller foils when you're going flat out and you needed a little bit of
stability. When you look at ability levels, if you are not already on the likes of a 325 Progressive,
if you're on something a bit bigger, stick with the likes of the 320. Likewise, if you're a slightly bigger
bloke, or you're not quite as confident on the water, go for the bigger ones. The 300, though, is the
one that I'm going to be spending as much time as I possibly can on. The cool thing is you also feel the
drive forwards uh in the pump. The same way I talked about it in the surge, you feel that with the surf
skinny as well. So it only amplifies that element of the surge, but that will also come into its own with
any foil. So if you're just wanting to loosen up your existing setup, this is a really really nice option
to do so. Um whereas still maintaining a lot of speed and a lot of glide, you then get a lot of turning
ability as well. Fuselage wise, advanced plus ultra short fuse is that's it. That's the only one you really
need to look at. It's not obviously, but that ticks too many boxes to not be a strong contender for the
the main showboat of of fuselages. Um, levelwise, that that just seems to be the one that ticks too many
boxes. Way too many boxes. So, everything I do personally is on an Ultrashort Advance Plus. Open water,
winging, prone foiling, toe foiling, everything happens on an ultrashort advance fuse. And that's where
I generally want you to stick to or want to stick towards. If you want something a little bit twitchier,
you could go for a longer fuselage or not twitchier but quicker turning, you could go for a shorter fuselage.
Uh if you want something a bit more stable on on straight lines if you're toe foiling big stuff or if
you're in the open water on a big spanny foil, you could go towards something a little bit longer like
the short. But otherwise, the ultra short advances the goldilocks fuselage. Any questions? give us a shout.
Otherwise, we'll see you on the next video. Apologies for the ramblings.