So yesterday was a perfect time to take another closer look to the Fireball 1500750. And it was perfect
because I'm not super healthy at the moment. I have a cold. I don't feel super well. So what I need is
an effortless foil. Welcome to Meton foil. &gt;&gt; So these are the two longd distance foils from Axis.
This one is the Fireball 1750 and this is the 1500. And I think I have around 3,000 bucks in my hand.
I think it's one Frank per cm uh with this one. With this one, a little less. But let's get into the long
one to start with. So this foil is exceptional. It is 1 m and 75 cm long and it's got an aspect ratio
of over 20. It says so here aspect ratio 20.12 which is phenomenal. It's super slim which makes it super
efficient and that doesn't make it easy though. This foil is not easy to use. It is paired with the skinny
25 stab which is also small and the psycho short fuse. So the whole setup is meant for efficiency. Now,
when you start it, you will immediately see it is incredibly pitch sensitive, and it's not a beginner's
foil, that's for sure. Um, you can see it here. And this guy is an experienced foiler, not calling names,
but you actually have to get used to this setup. Once you have it though, you can go forever. Not true.
I cannot go forever, but it really feels effortless. But wait a minute. What does effortless actually
mean? Does it mean that I can go forever? I don't think so. Effortless means to me that you don't need
a lot of effort to continue pumping. And you really don't with these foils. The problem is you need to
find that sweet spot. And as the pitch axis is very delicate, it needs a lot of training. So even to go
long on these foils, you need a lot of training. Not in a sense of you need to get fitter, you need to
go jogging, but you need a lot of time on that foil and that's what I didn't have, but still sometimes
I really felt it and you really need very little movement to continue pumping. This guy here can go forever.
This is Nicolola Eton and he has the world record on speed over an hour. or he has a world record in long
distance foiling and he uses these foils with a little customized shorter uh or smaller stab and this
foil is really cool. You can still turn it which is incredible for a foil that size probably due to the
small wing tips but if you see some seaweed ahead you can still turn it. I use it with the fatty mass
which is specially made for wings that span because you really want a stiff mass. Even though if it's
a little fatter, doesn't matter. You want a stiff connection. You want that your board on the foil and
you don't want it to flex too much. So with the fatty mast with this thick fuse, this really works. And
I for myself would call myself an average foiler. I think punk falling I might be a little over average.
I usually manage to really start these, but then I can really feel like to pump, you need a special technique.
You don't have to push uh or make too big of movements with this foil. You kind of have to feel it, feel
how it glides, and just make small adjustments. If I could train with that, then I really think I could
go for a long, long time. Cuz speaking of efficiency, man, this is crazy. If you think, well, this is
the foil for me, go try it first, cuz as I said, it's really not easy. It might be easier with a longer
fuse. And I've tested the 1500 with a longer fuse and a bigger tail. So, this is the setup I used with
the 1500. This is the ultrashort fuse, uh, which is a bit bigger. It's the fatty fuse as well. And this
is a 30 skinny. So a bigger tail wing, a smaller front wing, but a longer fuse, which makes it less pitch
sensitive, but still possible to pump. At least for me, you can really feel the slight movements that
you have to do when pumping these foils compared to lower aspect foils. If you want to go long distance,
you can go long distance with that as well. &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; So really no need to go over the top and
go for the biggest one. But just keep in mind that these foils are not your beginner foils. You're not
reaching the minute and then buy a foil like that and be able to go forever. Also, the start with these
foils is not too easy because yes, you have a lot of time to adjust because they have a super nice glide,
but then still pumping is not easy. Now, the build quality looks really good. These foils are stiff. These
foils are fun. And uh the covers that come with it actually are very nice, too. Now, firstly, you probably
think, well, this is just a regular cover and I can slide in. Yes, you can. But if you look at it here,
you actually have lashes that go over the trailing edge. And also for the tips, you can slide that in
here. And it just protects your foil very well. So, make sure to put that over before closing on both
sides. So, don't just slide it in, but really take care of your gear. And these covers as well. A lot
of attention to detail. Those are really nice. Also, it says so what it is so you never take the wrong
one. So, these fireballs are really cool. I don't know if you guys who watch this consider buying something
like this. So, which one of these bad boys should you get? It's a good question. Honestly, if I were to
pick one, I would take the 1500, but with the psycho short fuse and the smaller tail takes some more practice,
but it's more effortless. So, you're not making a mistake with either of those, but that would be my personal
pick. If you have any questions about these foils, hit me up in the comments or on Instagram, Matt onfoil.
And now, let's get out with the Surge. I'm excited as well. If you want an unbiased review of all the
surges, please tell me so in the comments and keep these reviews unbiased. Help me out with a cup of coffee.
Heat